




2175 Aeia

Region
Milky Way / Rosetta Nebula / Alpha Draconis





Planet View


Orbital Distance
4.5 AU


Orbital Period
7.3 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
1.71


Radius
6,521 km


Day Length
31.6 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.72 atm


Surface Temp
16 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.1 g


Mass
1.141 Earth Masses


Satellites
4


Location: Milky Way / Rosetta Nebula / Alpha Draconis System /  First planet
Prerequisite: Acquisition of Jacob: The Gift of Greatness (Mass Effect 2)


Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Missions
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Trivia


Description[]
Named after an asari scientist, this remote planet appears to have been on the list of forbidden mass relays that led to uncharted space. The little data available comes from one far-off probe flyby that reports two planets orbiting a white dwarf star.
Your own scans yield far more interesting results. The planet is within the habitable zone of the star. It has oceans of liquid water and a thin nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere consistent with carbon-based plant life. It is possible this is an as-yet-unexplored garden world.

Codex Entry[]





Audio: Aeiahttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Aeia_Codex.ogg

Humans detected Aeia as an Earth-type world via telemetry in 2165. After probe surveys indicated life -- lush vegetation, ample fresh water and breathable air -- the Alliance upgraded the planet to a garden-world colonization priority. Commanded by Captain Ronald Taylor, the crew of Alliance survey vessel Hugo Gernsback made planetfall on the jungle world in 2173. Soon after, ship transmissions inexplicably stopped. While the precise fate of the Hugo Gernsback command and crew is unknown, they are presumed killed in action and their vessel destroyed.


Missions[]
Mission: Jacob: The Gift of Greatness
Mineral Deposits[]
Initial Scanner Result: Rich



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

Medium

8,600


Platinum

High

12,700


Iridium

Medium

6,100


Element Zero

Low

2,800

Trivia[]
Aeia has 4 visible moons by the time of Shepard's visit: two by the sun, and two more in the opposite direction. The latter two are obscured by cliffs during most of the mission, but they can be seen with great difficulty on certain locations (or alternatively, with console commands).
The Codex entry for Aeia conflicts with the story discovered during the Gift of Greatness mission. While the Codex article claims Ronald Taylor was the Captain of the Gernsback, during the mission it is stated that he was second in command, assuming the title of Acting Captain only after the Gernsback's actual Captain, Harris Fairchild, perished in the crash.
The name Aeia may be based on Aiea, an area on Honolulu close to Pearl City and Moanalua.
Aei (ἀεί) means "always/ever" in Ancient Greek.  The name of the planet may refer the lengthy delay between the ship's crash and the activation of the beacon.



