


The Nexus needs a resource-producing outpost, but Eos is the only planet in range. As the only Pathfinder, you have been asked to achieve the impossible: find a way to settle Eos and give the Initiative the foothold it needs. Director Tann has committed the resources for a last-ditch effort, including a ship and support team for the Pathfinder.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Speak with SAM on the Hyperion
2.2 Go to your ship
2.3 Go to the bridge
2.4 Go to Eos in the Pytheas system
2.5 Land on Eos
2.6 Clear atmospheric radiation
2.7 Search Site 1's main control building

2.7.1 Find a code to access locked buildings


2.8 Restore power at Site 1
2.9 Investigate the power relay station
2.10 Activate the generators

2.10.1 Scan the power pylons to find an interface
2.10.2 Activate power pylons


2.11 Defeat the kett
2.12 Reactivate the power relay station
2.13 Scan containers to find a vehicle
2.14 Call down a forward station
2.15 Unlock the Nomad container
2.16 Get in the Nomad
2.17 Investigate strange signal
2.18 Search for a glyph to scan
2.19 Use the strange console
2.20 Defeat the hostile bots
2.21 Activate Remnant monoliths

2.21.1 Southwestern monolith
2.21.2 Southern monolith


2.22 Investigate the entrance
2.23 Explore the Remnant vault
2.24 Follow the conduit into the vault
2.25 Activate the gravity well
2.26 Follow the conduit farther into the vault
2.27 Repair the conduit flow
2.28 Find a way through the caverns
2.29 Follow the conduit to the source
2.30 Escape the vault
2.31 Optional: retrieve the unsealed item
2.32 Establish an outpost at an appropriate site
2.33 Speak with Tann at the Nexus Pathfinder HQ
2.34 Give Eos radiation time to clear


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards
5 Puzzle Solutions
6 Bugs
7 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Nexus Reunion

This mission is acquired immediately after joining forces with the Nexus.

Walkthrough[]
Speak with SAM on the Hyperion[]
Use the tram to return to the Habitation Deck of the Hyperion and head to the SAM Node. Activate the terminal in the SAM node to learn more about Pathfinder Ryder's connection to SAM and the modifications that Alec Ryder made to SAM to enhance his own abilities. The allies and relationships mission Ryder Family Secrets is automatically started, speak to SAM again to learn more.

Go to your ship[]
This objective is complete simply by going to the Nexus Docking Bay, but in the interests of efficiency the following actions can also be accomplished in the interim. (+270 XP for boarding the Tempest.)
Feel free to explore Alec's former quarters, now your own personal room, as SAM suggested. The first memory trigger for the recently started Allies and Relationships mission can be found here, as well as a model of the SSV Normandy SR-2. Access audio logs for insight into the Initiative and a few words from Liara T'Soni. 
You can also make a quick stop at the Cryo Bay to check on your sibling and pick up a side mission, Task: Lost Brother. 
When you finally enter the Tempest Ryder and Cora Harper enjoy a breathtaking view of the new ship. 

Go to the bridge[]
Once the cutscene has ended, your next objective is to head to the bridge to begin the trip. Feel free to explore the ship a bit before heading out, though most of the crew is too busy readying the ship to talk to Ryder. Vetra Nyx, one of the Tempest's new crew, will help acquaint you with all the sections of the ship.
Note:  You should check in with all of the crew after each Priority Ops mission. Crew members will usually have new conversation options after the completion of a Priority Op mission.
Kallo Jath, the ship's pilot, meets you upon entering the bridge, and explain the navigational controls and make ready for departure from the Nexus. Ryder gives a short speech and Kallo will take the ship out.

Go to Eos in the Pytheas system[]
Use the Galaxy Map to travel to Eos in the Pytheas system.
Note:  Travelling to Eos is a good opportunity to familiarize with planet scanning and begin working towards completing Task: The Model of the Spheres. The systems of Pfeiffer and Eriksson are now available for scanning as well and are on the way to Eos.

Land on Eos[]
Landing on Eos will gain Ryder +2 AVP and +2% Eos viability.

Clear atmospheric radiation[]
Previous attempts to colonize Eos failed due to the high radiation levels. However, the crew recognizes a signal like that found on Habitat 7; if similar alien technology exists on Eos, Ryder may be able to use it to improve the planet's conditions and make it viable for settlement.
This is the overarching objective of the mission. All other objectives below are designed to accomplish this one.
Note: If you are familiar with the structuring of missions and assignments in the previous Mass Effect trilogy, this is the first major mission where you will notice that you can accomplish numerous other missions on- and offworld before this gets resolved. This is similar to Race Against Time or Stop the Collectors, except while those are overarching missions for the first two games A Better Beginning is only the overarching mission for a single planet. A key difference is while you won't return to the same mission levels twice in the previous games, here you have the entire Eos map to explore repeatedly, or gradually as more areas open up. You can leave the planet, go back to the Nexus or explore other systems, and resume the mission where you left it. The same philosophy applies to all other hub worlds further down the game. Thus, with a few exceptions, there is generally no rush to investigate everything in one go, but lootable or scannable items along the way that can be returned to later will be noted for efficiency's sake.

If you take the time to walk around Site 1: Promise before dealing with the next objective, there are numerous items to scan that will yield a total of +160 and +20 (+10 each for scanning a fluorite node and a cadmium node for the first time). SAM helpfully encourages you to do it for research points once you bring up the scanner and it pings a valid object. The buildings have distinct labels on their walls to help with navigation and identification.
Just a few steps from your starting position, there's an ammo supply cache and a container. Looting the container will alert the squad there seems to be someone else in the area. Beside a nearby truck are two supply caches: ammo and health. The crate next to the health cache can also be scanned for +10. The building marked S2 cannot be opened for now; between it and the Tempest is another ammo supply cache and another lootable container.
Following the vehicle trail from your starting position, the yellow six-wheeled cAvro/Ute PackRack can be scanned for +10. The fallen cylinder beyond it is a damaged Husqani-M1 Adaptive Turbine (+10). On the rocks overlooking the site's small lake is a fluorite node. Further along the vehicle trail, east of the Tempest is another damaged power turbine (+10). 
Nearby, outside the building labeled L1 is a container. Inside it is a datapad containing a door code and a terminal.

The building labeled T3 west of the Tempest has a scannable door (+10) telling you there's no power. Between the T3 building and the F5 building is an Infusion Station (+10). South of the T3 building, near shield masts, are fluorite and cadmium nodes as well as a destroyed Forward Station (+10). On the other side of the anti-radiation field near the Forward Station, there's a shuttle torn in two (+10). You won't have to leave the field to scan that one.
The F5 building has two containers, a datapad with a door code, and another datapad containing Grace Lito's personal log.
There are two buildings labeled S2 in Site 1. One is marked as the research station in the map. North of the other S2 building is another Infusion Station (+10). East from the Infusion Station, at the base of a girthy rock formation is a fluorite node.

The main building complex is also labeled N4. There are two working energy storages (+10 each) north and east of it. A few steps north from the building is a working shuttle(+10), presumably operated by someone who isn't supposed to be there. Beneath one energy storage is a scannable corpse that will give you Task: Naming the Dead.
The giant circular complex along the vehicle trail is a water filtration system displaced by the storms. There's nothing in its surroundings except shield masts and two fluorite nodes, but be warned that one of them lies in a level 3 radiation hazard zone that will deplete your life support rapidly.
Site 1: Promise is ringed by multiple shield masts. Beyond them is a radiation environmental hazard; venturing outside will gradually deplete your hardsuit's life support systems unless you turn back. Multiple sites on Eos also have these masts: scanning them the first time will yield some dialogue about their function but no points. Scanning subsequent masts will not yield anything even if the scanner marks them red.

Search Site 1's main control building[]
Reach the outpost central control on the objective marker northwest from the Tempest to complete this objective. It's on emergency power and it's locked, requiring a code to open.

Find a code to access locked buildings[]
If you haven't encountered the code yet, this sub-objective pops up. The objective marker will point you to the building labeled L1 as it has a datapad inside that has the code, although you can also search the building labeled F5 for a similar datapad. After retrieving either, you will be able to open the main control building's door.

Restore power at Site 1[]
If you already have the code from searching the other buildings, upon opening the outer door you'll see two doors and a container inside. One of the doors is locked (also scannable, but won't yield points if you already scanned a similar door in the T3 building). Beyond the accessible door is a message terminal. Further in, you can scan the power interface for +10. There are two containers, an audio terminal (about a complaining Zed Wilcox), and a console, but your objective is accessing the console.
After using the console, the first step at Site 1: Promise is restoring power to the abandoned outpost so that a thorough scan of the area can be completed and the source of the atmospheric disturbance can be located. Ryder finds that there is a manual override at a nearby relay station that is preventing the power from coming online.

Investigate the power relay station[]
Follow the objective marker to the power relay station on the southeastern ridge, beyond the Tempest.
Follow the vehicle trail east and on some rocks before the incline there's a fluorite and a cadmium node. The trail curves upward to the power station (also labeled T3 but this building's bigger than the other one); beside two crates there's an ammo cache. The power station's lower door yields +10 when scanned. The pipes on the downward slope are part of a Hydro-Evaluation Station (+10).
Beneath the stairs to the upper door there's a lootable container. Upon using the console beside the door on the second floor of the station, you will be "greeted" by Clancy Arquist, a salvager who has taken up temporary residence there. It appears that Clancy is responsible for the signs of recent illicit activity at Site 1. Clancy won't open the relay station doors just yet, but he agrees to let you turn on some of the generators to get the antenna online to locate the source of the Remnant signal. He warns, however, that doing so will attract the attention of kett patrols.

Activate the generators[]
You now need to activate the generators. Objective markers for two power pylons will appear: one southeast from the Tempest and one southwest from the Tempest. Either can be chosen at will.

Scan the power pylons to find an interface[]
Attempting to activate the first power pylon will cause it to break down and temporarily cross out the previous objective. Scan the power pylon (+10) to determine another interface location. 
Activate power pylons[]
Use the interface location information to activate the first power pylon. Repeat the scanning and activating process for the second power pylon. (+10)

Defeat the kett[]
Upon repairing the second pylon, two dropships will deliver 2-3 kett Chosen each, deploying beside the Tempest's nose. Deal with them.
Reactivate the power relay station[]
Return to Clancy and speak to him to get information about where to find a vehicle. After Clancy leaves, use the console at the back of the room to reactivate the power relay station (+73 AVP and +5% Eos viability).
Note: When you return to Clancy he can buy/sell items if you immediately ask if he trades. He won't be able to do so if you advise him to get to a safe location, although later he can be found next to the shuttle behind Site 1's main building as a merchant.
The room also has two lootable containers.

Scan containers to find a vehicle[]
Once power is restored, Ryder will be able to access the surrounding buildings. You only need to scan the large cargo container northeast of the Tempest to complete this objective, but since we're already here might as well explore.
The now-unlocked building S2 next to the cargo container is a Research Center. Investigate the Research Center to begin Task: Research Center Development.

In some of the unlocked buildings, you can scan portions of recorded conversations from the former settler inhabitants. SAM is able to reconstruct the recorded conversations. In the small building marked T3 southeast from the Forward Station, there are two lootable containers as well as reconstructed images of Wilcox and Farthingale. In the big building also marked T3 south of the Tempest (first floor of power relay station) is a terminal, a container, a datapad that yields the mission The Secret Project, and reconstructed images of Wilcox and Farthingale. Scanning the reconstructed images awards +270 XP per conversation (+540 XP total). 
Additionally, the formerly locked room in outpost central control has a container and a terminal containing Kay Farthingale's supply log.


Call down a forward station[]
Follow the objective marker to a large container with a small access panel. Scan the container to discover that it contains the ND1 Nomad, but must be opened with a code from a Forward Station. Approach the new objective marker and the Forward Station will automatically descend. 
Note:  The first forward station on Eos doesn't give the usual award of AVP and viability. This was awarded when Ryder first landed on the planet. Subsequent forward stations on Eos will give the correct rewards except for the Forward Station on the vault island.

Unlock the Nomad container[]
After SAM has automatically downloaded the access code, head back to the panel on the container to gain access to your new vehicle.
Get in the Nomad[]
Enter the Nomad to acquaint yourself with the controls of the vehicle.

Investigate strange signal[]
Follow the vehicle trail out of Site 1 toward the new objective marker west-southwest. You'll likely find some small hostile creatures while traveling to the objective, these can mostly be ignored and can be killed by driving over them with the Nomad. Just before entering the radiation shield on the north side of the road is a deposit of element zero.
Note: Enroute to the objective, You can pass a memory trigger which is part of the mission Ryder Family Secrets.
You will arrive at an unusual structure marked with a. Once past the radiation shield, you can exit the Nomad and roam about on foot. 
Just left of the vehicle trail, there is a colonist corpse for Task: Naming the Dead. On the rocks nearby south, a platinum node (+10). Beyond the rocks, before the central platform are Initiative supplies with a small lootable container, plus health and ammo caches.
East from the central platform is a scourge tendril (+10). On a pile of rocks beyond the radiation shield northeast of the tendril is a fluorite node. West from the central platform, another Initiative shuttle (+10) implying someone else is around.
Lastly, before accessing the central console ("Alien Device") marked in the objective the scattering of Remnant coolant tanks around can also be scanned (+10).

Search for a glyph to scan[]
Attempting to interface with the console will introduce a key mechanic: you can use the scanner to follow hidden cables radiating from the console. In this case, there is only one cable, so follow the cable with the scanner. Alternatively, the objective marker clearly shows where you should be going anyway; it's just a matter of navigation.
Climb up the structure with the cable, then use Ryder's scanner to read a Remnant Glyph at the top. There are two Initiative monitors on top of the structure as well; scanning them will give +10 each.


Use the strange console[]
Once the glyph is scanned, you can return to the central console and interface with it to trigger a cutscene, where an asari comes out of nowhere and tackles Ryder to the ground, advising against rash actions. You can push her off or hear her out, either way before the proper introductions you'll have to fight some enemies.

Defeat the hostile bots[]
After the cutscene, the group is attacked by a group of Assemblers and an Observer. Deal with them.
After destroying the bots, the cutscene resumes where Ryder and the newcomer swap information about the Remnant. You now learn her name is Peebee, and she gives you her navpoints while she studies how you interfaced with the monolith.
After the cutscene, Peebee stays put there until you progress further into the mission. Until then, you can talk to her again for more information on herself and what she's doing on Eos. If you haven't scanned them yet, Observers yield +50 on first scan.

Activate Remnant monoliths[]
Next, you must travel in the Nomad to the two other monoliths - The southwestern and southern monoliths. Note:  The monolith visiting order is up to you, though this walkthrough has to start from somewhere: southwestern monolith first.

Southwestern monolith[]
Note: The road from the first monolith (northern) to the southwestern monolith will pass a forward station drop point. Stop for a moment to allow the forward station to drop before continuing. (+2 AVP and +2% Eos viability)

The Southwestern Monolith seems to have docile Remnant bots at first, though that's soon proven wrong on approach. You'll soon have about 4 Observers and 2 Assemblers to clear out.
The battlefield has two ammo and health caches around, plus several coolant containers, dischargeable supercapacitors and explosive materials (+10 each on first scan and deals damage to nearby enemies when destroyed). The two outer consoles in the central platform provide a quick tutorial on interfacing: they raise or lower nearby objects depending on configuration. These two control blast shields, though by the time you access them you'll likely have dealt with the bots already.
Other objects in the vicinity is a datapad with an audio log of the last doomed colonist there, plus another corpse for Task: Naming the Dead.
The objective marker points at the central console, though you also have to scan for two glyphs highlighted in the mission tracker. If you try to access the central console without scanning for the glyphs, a puzzle appears though it isn't solvable for the moment because it requires those glyphs.
Use the scanner to reveal two cables snaking out of the central console. Each cable will pass by another Remnant console. Interface with the console to raise several pillars and provide a method of reaching the glyph at the end of the cable. Near one of the glyphs at the top an unknown resonant device can also be scanned for +10. The pillars are also scannable, though they don't yield any points.
Once both glyphs are scanned (Accretion Glyph and Nihility Glyph), return to the central console and interface with it. This time, additional encryption will require you to solve a Sudoku-like puzzle in order to activate the monolith. For the puzzle solution, see here. If you found a Remnant Decryption Key, this special item may be used to bypass the puzzle. (+270 XP for completing the puzzle.)

As soon as Ryder activates the monolith, a squad composed of kett Anointed and Chosen will enter the scene from a dropship. Turns out those blast shield consoles may be good for something after all. Fight them off, then scan an Anointed corpse for +50 if this is your first time encountering the unit. 
Drive out to the southern monolith when you're done with the place.

Southern monolith[]
As you may have noticed by now, the vehicle trail from Site 1 leads to the location of all monoliths. On approach to the southern monolith, it becomes apparent the kett have erected a compound around the structure. Peebee complains the kett squatted over her best research site, and warns the team they won't let it go without a fight.
This sub-objective is marked Kett Research Center and has two further sub-subobjectives: Clear the kett, and when that's done Find and disable the generator powering the shields to access the monolith. All three do not appear in the journal upon completion.

The southern monolith is heavily guarded by these aliens. Battle through the initial wave of kett and two sets of dropship reinforcements. From the entrance, the walkway splits into left and right paths: it doesn't matter which way you take, they both converge at a presently shielded central area. Before going in, take note of a Kett Core Encryption Tech (+100) on the raised platform to the right, beyond the radiation shields.
The enemy consists of Chosen, Wraiths, and Anointed, who have home court advantage due to all the kinetic barriers and narrow walkways in the area. The barriers can be shut down through shooting or disabling nearby power generators, and keep an eye out for explosive canisters in case some enemy wanders close. Note:  Be mindful of your landing if you're jumping around in the walkways lest you suffer health and shield penalties from falling. Conversely, enemies can be disposed off in the same manner.
The walkways have four ammo caches, one lootable container in the center platform, one lootable container and an artifact crate (+10) in the left path. There are two Kett Core Encryption Tech (+100 each) in the right path. Several other kett equipment in the area are scannable, though they only inform you of their function and have no research points.

After the battle, you must disable or destroy the power generator noted by the objective marker. It shields both the central chamber and the monolith's central console. When the shields are down, a cutscene triggers in which Ryder meets Nakmor Drack, an old krogan with an apparent penchant for dramatic entrances. He soon leaves to hunt for more kett.
Be sure to check the whole base for other items not yet mentioned. In the immediate chamber, there are technology fragments on the floor (+10) and an artifact crate (+10), on the side of the left walkway. Beside the door to the right walkway, another artifact crate (+10) and a terminal with kett logs. The dead Wraith left by Drack on the floor can also be scanned, though it doesn't yield any research points. The inner chamber has a component box for Site 2's The Secret Project, a terminal with an audio log, and another body for Task: Naming the Dead.
On top of the central chamber there's a lootable container beside a power generator. Underneath the central chamber there are two lootable containers around a support column.
When you've had enough of the kett base, proceed to the monolith site. The area has a health and ammo cache each, a platinum node, and two toppled Nexus-issued scanners (+10 each).
As before, two more glyphs await Ryder. Follow the cables, scan the glyphs (Synaptic Glyph and Verdurous Glyph), then return to the central console. There is no puzzle at this monolith. Also, there is no enemy ambush after activating the monolith. (+270 XP, +73 AVP, and +5% Eos viability)

Investigate the entrance[]
When all three monoliths are activated, their beams now converge into a single location by the lake: a secret Remnant vault for Ryder to explore, containing the necessary machinery to revive the world. This is a common pattern on most other worlds further in the game.
Go back to the Nomad and follow the new navpoint toward the vault: an island in the lake marked with. 
Note:  The road from the southern monolith to the Vault will pass another forward station drop point. Stop for a moment to allow the forward station to deploy before continuing. (+2 AVP  and +2% Eos viability)

Climb out of the Nomad and access a console near the shore, which will activate a bridge, raise the Vault entrance from the ground, and deactivate the monoliths' beams. You can cross to the island on foot or by vehicle, but you will need to walk into the Vault to continue. Be careful not to fall into the lake, you'll end up on the closest shore you dropped from.
Explore the Remnant vault[]
Peebee will be waiting for Ryder outside the vault, insistent on joining for the adventure. Once you open the door, you will be allowed to configure your loadout, then a cutscene immediately follows that sends the gang into the vault's mysterious depths. An interrupt is available that determines who goes first.
Once inside the vault, you cannot return to it later to collect missed resources. Take all wanted items as they become available. Keeping a save before opening the door is also advised, since while there are automatic saves there is no manual saving while in the vault.

After a long (but comfortable) drop down, Ryder and company arrive at a cavernous chamber. Peebee says to be thorough; doesn't hurt to follow her advice. Not even the kett appear to have reached where you are, so expect your team to be chatty on approach to interesting things.
In this first room you will find two loot containers and two Remnant Objects for +10 each. After a brief discussion, you will be able to scan the Data Pattern for +10. The "wall" to the south is also scannable and tells you it can function as a door, though it yields no points. If you consult your map, you'll find that the Eos overworld has been replaced for the time being with that of the immediate area, which will increase in coverage as you explore more and more of the vault.
When you've got all that, follow the objective marker to interface with the console. 

Follow the conduit into the vault[]
Nothing obvious immediately happens, so SAM reports conduits filling up with ferrofluid. Turn on your scanner and you'll see pipes leading out of the room, past the door/wall to the south. It immediately opens on approach.

Through the newly opened door, you will find another chamber with another wall/door at the end. You can scan that door (0 points), though on approach Ryder will be perplexed as to why it isn't working. Peebee suggests investigating the Data Patterns surrounding the inoperable console. Scanning any one of the patterns triggers another discussion; after scanning all three the next door will be unlocked.
The Data Patterns in the room award +10 each. 
When you open the next door, another cutscene triggers. At this point, Peebee will decide to split up: Ryder fixes the vault; she'll investigate the relic. Task: Remnant Data Cores will be automatically given after the cutscene. Once the door closes behind you, it's permanently sealed shut.

You can scan the barrier around the power beam in the center of this new room for +10. It's impenetrable and a level 4 electrical hazard, so don't even try to walk through it. The door to the east will be locked and inaccessible the entire mission. The force field to the west is worth investigating. You cannot enter the room yet, so you'll order SAM to note the location on your map (See Bugs section). You will be only be able to access the room and container on the way out of the vault. 
Head through the southern door to continue. In the next room, on the right is a container, and a Remnant console at the middle end of the platform. The console controls blast shields and nothing else.
Use the elevated pillars in the fluid to get across to the next platform with a mechanical arm. Scan the Mechanical Arm and the Unknown Ferrofluid for +10 each (+20 total). Note: Don't fall into the ferrofluid: level 3 electrical hazard.
On a cluster of pillars just next to the mechanical arm is an Adaptive Remnant Core Device (+100). Due northeast among the terraced steps, before passing the navpoint, is a container.

South from the pillars, there's a door. Open it and head into what appears to be a storage room. You'll be attacked by two hostile Assemblers. The remaining 3 Assemblers in the room will remain inactive. 
After defeating the enemies, scan one of the Inactive Assemblers for +10 and loot the nearby container. Head back out when you're done.
Following the navpoint again across the deadly pool to the eastern side of room, there are several territorial Assemblers. Defeat them to roam the area freely. There are ammo and health caches to the east in case you run low. 

A container is located on the lower level of this area, below the Remnant console and beside a ferrofluid waterfall. The console does not control anything useful, only blast shields again.
To the south across some pillars, there is another container. There is also a locked door in this location; it can't be unlocked and the other side is empty anyway.
Further east, Ryder and the gang observe cyclopean Remnant machinery from the cliff all the way to the horizon, making them wonder what the place is really about. The ferrofluid falls off here, and there are two paths. To your left (north) ends in a door with a container inside. To your right (south) is the continuation of the conduit trail, another ammo cache, and a side door with another container.

In the next room, there are five more hostile Assemblers. Deal with them. There's a health and an ammo cache along the cliff path south for emergencies.
The room has two doors along the wall with visual glyphs on their surfaces in an apparent interface. Don't be fooled: they're just set decoration, cannot be opened, and again empty anyway. Near the southwest door is a container though. There are also two consoles that are linked to each other: for controlling blast shields again.
After finishing with this room, proceed to the south into a corridor. There will be a brief interaction with Peebee who can be seen on a distant ledge to the east. Don't even try jumpjetting to her position, there's no point and it cannot be reached through normal means.

The conduit goes through a large door nearby. Before entering it, follow the ledge till you hit the dead end. Therein lies a container, in addition to a door that can be opened to reveal another container. Head back to the main door when you're done.
After going through the main door, Remnant Lights rise up from the floor. You can scan one of them, though they don't give any points. 
The passage ends in another door. The final navpoint is in the next room; reaching it causes Ryder to surmise there's an inactive gravity well that can be turned back on.


Activate the gravity well[]
This room contains some Remnant forces, which you'll have to fight. Accessing the two consoles in the area will raise a gravity well, though you'll have to deal with the bots first.

Note:  If you want to stack the odds further in your favor, before rushing headlong into battle, proceed up the ramp to the right (north ramp) without attracting the attention of the Remnant forces. The console there controls the nearby Remnant turret. Start by scanning the turret (+50), then interface with the nearby console to convert the turret into an ally, and then begin the battle. 
There are two ammo caches in the area: one near the turret, and the other on the opposite side, near the other objective console that's also tied to a Remnant Shield Charger (scannable, but yields no research points). Enemy composition is Assemblers and Observers.
After beating the bots, the entrance to the chamber seals up and the only way out is forward. Before leaving, you can loot the container to the west, and scan the nearby inactive Observer (+10) to trigger a conversation about the nature of the bots.
After collecting all needed items in the room, activate the gravity well to reach the second level of the vault.

Follow the conduit farther into the vault[]
You arrive at yet another cavernous chamber in Floor 2, with a console on one side and a wall/door on the opposite side. Problem is, the console turns out to be leaking ferrofluid, so there's no power going to the door.

Repair the conduit flow[]
Peebee shouts out from an unreachable ledge, also complaining she can't access any doors. She sends you an omni-tool patch mimicking laser frequencies Observers use to fix things. You can now repair the console. Scanning the Ferrofluid Leak is optional, though it awards +10.
After fixing the leak, interface with the console to unlock the door. Peebee gains access to a Remnant bridge and speeds off on her own again. Before leaving the room, loot the two containers there; the one beside a Remnant light has a guaranteed Remnant Cryo-Gauntlet.
Note:  Fixing the conduit is the last autosave for a while. Try not to die if you don't want to lose items you'll be looting later.

Find a way through the caverns[]
The giant door opens to a literally cavernous chamber, much of it chasms and some platforms like the one you're standing on. Immediately look to the left for an Adaptive Remnant Core Device (+100).
The gap between your platform and the next is impossible to cross unaided or even with jumpjets. Fortunately, the Remnant console on your starting platform can raise some pillars. 
Use the pillars to reach the platform with the Unknown Plant and scan the plant for +10. There's a health cache here in case you need it. Interface with the nearby console on the platform to elevate pillars to the southwest, which simultaneously lowers the pillars to the starting platform.
Cross the pillars to the southwest platform, where after a few jumps up a couple of Observers plus four or five Assemblers show up to hassle the squad. There are two ammo caches here.

After the battle, you can explore the nearby ledges for lootables. Southwest from the Unknown Plant platform, on the top ledge beside a Remnant light is a container. On the upper ledge next to the green-hued pit is another container.
Head through the door to the west into another Assembler maintenance bay (or your first, if you didn't explore the earlier one). The squad are nervous about the inactive machines; fortunately none of them go online and there's only a lootable container here. A sharp sound suddenly interrupts on your way out: false alarm, some machine part probably fell somewhere. 

When you're out of the room, use the nearby console. This console will provide access to the northern section of the vault. Ryder thinks you should backtrack, so best follow your own advice. A trio of Observers pop up on your way though, so you'll have to deal with them first. There's a bunch of blast shields here you can crouch behind, though better move fast or they'll float and fire at your flank.
Head back to the tree platform and take the newly-accessible northern path to a new platform. 

Follow the conduit to the source[]
On setting foot at the northern platform, this objective pops up. You can follow the objective marker immediately by interfacing with the western console to start a trail, though if you want to explore further ignore it for the moment. There's an ammo cache here if you need it. The locked door nearby cannot be opened by any means; pay it no attention.
Immediately jump up to a ledge to the north-west to access another container and another console. This console will open a path to the southern section. 

Go back to the tree platform and continue to the southern path. On the southern platform, a welcoming party of Observers and Assemblers greet your arrival. Take your time dealing with them; plenty of cover and fallback positions around.
After dealing with them, before going into the area with another tree there are three containers. One is just next to a blast shield. Another is up on the ledges, requiring climbing and jumpjets to reach. The last one is at the promontory overlooking the southwesternmost reaches of the map; one of your squadmates may have something to say here.
Now head back to the nearby tree-area that Ryder describes to be some sort of library. In this location, you will find six Data Patterns that can be scanned for +10 each (+60 total). This location also has two glyphs (Reflection Glyph and Nihility Glyph) to be scanned that allow access to the puzzle container. (This puzzle is required for the Cryptographer Achievement). For the puzzle solution, see here.
Once you've collected all of the items, jump back over to the first tree platform and onto the northern platform once more.

Interface with the western console (on the northern platform) to raise pillars to open a new pathway. Doing that, however, attracts the attention of another Observer trio plus an Assembler. Defeat them. The cover spots are near the bots, so shooting (or powers) from afar may be more prudent.
The pillars lead to another tree platform. Again it isn't possible to jump across to the final platform without using the console; Ryder confirms on approach to the edge. Interface with the console on this platform to activate a bridge.

Cross the bridge and loot from the container on the left before going through the main door to the north. The main door takes Ryder to the heart of the vault. 
The giant energy beam cannot be scanned but an Adaptive Remnant Core Device to the right can (+100). The nearby Remnant Barrier can also be scanned, though it has no research points. There is also a nearby container and a health cache. 
If, for some reason, you are compelled to go near the beam, don't. It's a level 4 electrical hazard.

Escape the vault[]
Once you've collected everything you need, and are ready to finish the mission, access the main console highlighted by the objective marker, and get ready to run. Activating the console starts a purification field that you must outrun. The final autosaves in the vault record here, and the Fusion Mod of Shielding is automatically awarded.

Simply have Ryder follow the objective marker to exit the vault, and always move forward. The purification field will always be behind you, but if you dawdle to take a look for a few seconds too long it will consume you along with everything else. Several obstacles can delay the escape: avoid the square (or diamond) floor vents, they'll spew hazards, and immediately use the first console you see to activate a bridge.
At the end of the path, behind a door is a gravity well. Use it and it will deposit you back to Level 1.
Quickly do the objective below, or ignore it. Whatever you decide, run for the door to the north afterward. Once you open it a long cutscene will trigger. Peebee barely makes it with some Observers on her heel, the final door to the surface won't budge, and Ryder has a desperate idea to interface with the nearby console, though the purification field recedes on its own. Vault restart complete, and you can choose how to react on the team's experiences in a conversation.
Afterward, SAM reports some interesting connections between the Remnant and the Heleus Cluster, and you have further opportunities to steer the conversation. 
When Ryder exits the vault, +1330 XP, +1150 AVP, and +50% Eos viability are awarded. The skies are also clearer, thanks to superfast terraforming. Peebee confirms Ryder is her ticket to the Remnant and requests to join the team. She won't take no for an answer, and here's your new squad member.
Note:  A forward station is established on the vault island after the vault is activated, but unlike other forward stations, no additional AVP or planet viability is awarded. Peebee, although she just flew out of the area through her shuttle, can immediately be selected as a squadmate in the loadout section.

Optional: retrieve the unsealed item[]
As soon as you return to Level 1, after using the gravity well, Ryder will comment that the force field from earlier in the mission is deactivated (the area will now be marked on the map with). 
Quickly jump up the ledge to the west and loot the container for +142 XP and a large array of miscellanea, plus three guaranteed Remnant Cores.
To emphasize, you aren't required to complete this objective given the time constraints, though it's a trade-off between escaping alive or some valuable loot. It's merely a matter of your own dexterity if you can pull it off.

Establish an outpost at an appropriate site[]
Use the Nomad to travel to the objective location. If you activated the forward station near the southern monolith, you can use the forward station to fast travel very near to the site. 

Upon approach, Ryder spots Drack in battle against a kett platoon. Drive over and exit the vehicle to help him fight the kett off: 4-6 Chosen initially deployed from two dropships, then joined by another dropship with Anointed and more Chosen after your arrival. Note:  Don't worry about Drack dying; he and the kett are invincible before you enter the fray. 
When the dust has settled, Drack revises his opinion of Ryder after being impressed by the squad's combat abilities, and decides to join the crew.
After talking to Drack, interact with the outpost beacon to initiate the settlement procedure. Ryder will be faced with an important decision about the nature of the new outpost: should it have a scientific or a military focus? Warning:  You do not make the decision for each individual outpost further down the game, only this one. Whatever you choose will become the focus of all future outposts.  Either decision will please some and upset others.

Once you decide, shuttles begin bringing colonists down to the surface, and many prefab buildings are deployed. August Bradley is assigned as the mayor of the new settlement, which the inhabitants call Prodromos. 
Foster Addison promptly takes Ryder aside to discuss the situation. After a few ambiguous compliments and reprimands (where you can steer the conversation twice according to your opinions on her), she departs for the Nexus, leaving you overlooking the home you've just made possible. 
Feel free to head down to explore and socialize. From this point forward, The Tempest now parks in Prodromos instead of Site 1 when revisiting the planet. When you're ready, return to your ship.
Setting up the outpost will award +300 AVP  and +10% Eos viability. The mission AVP Cryo Deployment Perks also becomes available after the talk with Addison.

Speak with Tann at the Nexus Pathfinder HQ[]
On the Tempest, after a quick introductory meeting for the Pathfinder team's two new members, you will have free reign of the ship. Take the opportunity to get to know the crew, who are no longer too busy to talk. Use the email terminal to pick up some side missions. 
When you're ready, use the Galaxy Map to travel back to the Nexus, greet the crowd headed by Professor Herik and Lieutenant Sajax, then take a tram from the Docking Bay to Operations. 
Enter the door to the Pathfinder HQ to discover that it has been transformed from a storage closet into a large office and meeting room. 

Tann initially meets with and congratulates Ryder alone. Whatever your opinions on him, he will reframe it in a way that paints him in a conciliatory light. He then explains the Pathfinder HQ's purpose to you before Tiran Kandros and Nakmor Kesh, his "staff", arrive (although they both prefer "colleagues").
The next topic of the conversation revolves around your choice of focus for Prodromos: Kandros raises concerns if you opted for the scientific outpost, and Kesh raises concerns if you opted for the military one. Either way Tann will send you out to continue along the lead discovered in the first vault.
Finishing the meeting will complete this mission despite the objective below. The next Priority Op, A Trail of Hope I, is also automatically awarded.

Give Eos radiation time to clear[]
Even though the skies are clear above Eos, many areas are still inaccessible due to lethal radiation levels. It is recommended that you return once the radiation has cleared. 
The radiation will be gone after your first visit to Aya during A Trail of Hope I. Just go to Aya directly after "A Better Beginning" has completed, and then return to Eos.

Aftermath[]
Ryder has taken command of the Tempest and is falling into the role of Pathfinder. Eos, after two failed former attempts at settlement, has finally been deemed viable, and Ryder has founded the Prodromos colony, governed by Mayor August Bradley. The colony's focus was determined by the Pathfinder, and the standard has been set for the whole Initiative going forward.
The consequences of your decision between a scientific or military focus for the first colony has minor effects on dialogue and which members of the Nexus leadership are supportive. There are no major plot changes because of this choice however.
If Military Focus is selected, a squad from Prodromos will help during Meridian: The Way Home.
You can now optionally visit your sibling in the Cryo Bay for the mission Ryder Family Secrets if you haven't yet.
Keri T'Vessa, an asari journalist and potential love interest, can be found outside the Pathfinder HQ, linked to Task: Path of a Hero. 
You will be reminded to speak to Addison about mission AVP Cryo Deployment Perks, even if it has already been completed.
With the radiation cleared, a much larger portion of Eos is now available for exploration. It is recommended to complete A Job for Danny Messier as there are bug issues with this mission.

Rewards[]
+1400 XP
Puzzle Solutions[]
Main article: Remnant Decryption Puzzle Guide







Vault ContainerReward: Valuable Loot

Southwestern MonolithReward: Game Progression

Bugs[]
Even though Ryder asks SAM to mark the location of the "rem-tech" behind the force field at location on the first floor of the vault (so that the loot can collected upon escape), the location is never added to the map. On close proximity to the loot, an orange empty hexagon will appear and lead to it. This function works correctly in all other vaults.
The map of the second floor does not map correctly to Ryder's location when viewed in-game.
Trivia[]
As Ryder nears the gravity well to the vault's second floor, SAM says that "direct intervention was necessary" on Habitat 7, a possible reference to Harbinger from Mass Effect 2.



Priority Ops Navigation


← Previous Mission

Mission Index

Next Mission →


First Strike

Missions (Mass Effect: Andromeda)

AVP Cryo Deployment Perks




