


After you saved Kiiran Dals' team from Remnant Stasis, she mentioned that Havarl was in decline. Though Havarl appears to be thriving, not everything is as it seems.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Talk to Kiiran Dals about Havarl's problems
2.2 Find the entrance to Mithrava, the sanctuary
2.3 Reach the top of Mithrava
2.4 Go to the location Esmus mentioned
2.5 Locate Zorai's heirloom
2.6 Go to Taavos' Roekaar camp
2.7 Defeat the Roekaar at their camp
2.8 Find Taavos
2.9 Meet Taavos at the entrance to the lost monolith
2.10 Examine the remains
2.11 Continue with Taavos to the monolith
2.12 Activate Havarl's third monolith
2.13 Find and activate Havarl's vault
2.14 Turn on emergency power
2.15 Lift the lockdown on the vault
2.16 Escape the purification field and exit the vault
2.17 Return to Kiiran Dals


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards
5 Puzzle Solution


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Helping Havarl's Scientists

This mission is automatically received after completing the former in Pelaav Research Station.

Walkthrough[]
Talk to Kiiran Dals about Havarl's problems[]
Kiiran Dals says that Havarl is having ecological issues, the result of having only two working monoliths instead of three. Assistant Torvar, one of the researchers, suggests asking the sages at Mithrava. Kiiran Dals scoffs at the idea, explaining how the sages are hermits that believe in isolating themselves from modern thought.

Find the entrance to Mithrava, the sanctuary[]

Regardless of what Kiiran says, you will need to go to Mithrava. Head to the Chasm of the Builders—that giant Remnant rift to the east—and proceed to the southern end. Open the door there, get inside. Once through, continue all the way to the back of the room to find a Remnant console near two giant mushrooms; it will sprout out of the ground when you approach. Interface with the console to open a wall to the west.

Reach the top of Mithrava[]
Through the wall is a short corridor, at the end of which a pillar rises. Climb the pillar and head up through the hole. Since the ledges in the hole have the same length, jumping up to the next ledge requires jumping out towards the center and then turning during the jump. The hole has 3 "levels" and there's a lootable container in the second.


At the top is a gravity well. Use it to cross over to the other side into the entrance of Mithrava Ascent, evidently a tall Remnant tower. Your squadmates may comment on that. In the bridge across the lightning "moat" there is another lootable container among the debris. Use the gravity well to head up to the first leg of the arduous climb to the top.
On emerging from the gravity well head south and into the tower's outer perimeter. Your squadmates may also have some lines here. Consulting the map, your general path is counterclockwise around the tower. Clockwise ends in a small corner with a large lootable container guarded by a Nullifier. 
To resume, follow the path east and you should see another lootable container before a huge drop down. Just below the ledge is an ammo supply cache.
Proceeding further you may encounter some random Remnant units on standby, though they turn hostile on approach. Deal with them. At the other end to the north is a health cache if you need it, and despite appearances to the contrary a ledge that isn't climbable. It appears to be a dead end and your Ryder says you'll need to find another way, so inspect the area.


If you optionally take out your scanner, you should see the connection between a nearby Remnant console and a bunch of pillars. Use the console to rearrange the pillars in a configuration friendly to jumpjet climbing and resume the path above. Before leaving this area don't forget another lootable container near the statue.
At the top there are two lootable containers, one next to a plant and one next to the dead end ledge above the aforementioned health cache.
Continuing on east to west will lead to a large chasm. You can't jump this one. There is nearby Remnant console; using it will extend a bridge. There are a few random Remnant bots on the other side, usually floating down from the platforms above, so be mindful of the edge while fighting. There is another lootable container behind debris on the other side.


When you turn to the south climb up through the provided elevated pillars and ledges. When you see the Remnant pillars along the inner wall climb them. Once above the map now considers you to be on Upper Mithrava Ascent. You'll see another extendable bridge console. Activate it. If you've been observant you may notice that the two extendable bridges are next to each other, just on different levels, and extending one retracts the other, so if you ever decide to take the long way up the tower again you will have to interface with the console below again.
Cross the bridge and climb up a few consecutive pillars and ledges to reach a Remnant door, which opens to another gravity well that takes Ryder upwards and finally to Mithrava itself. Items in this penultimate area are a health cache during the jumps up and two containers along the outskirts of the Remnant door.


When you reach the top, First Sage Esmus comes to ask how and why you're here. You have opportunities to answer in casual/professional and emotional/logical quadrants. However, once informed, he says that restoring Havarl is impossible, because they do not have the knowledge of the third monolith or the vault. It is explained that angara believe in reincarnation, and that sometimes memories of a soul can be remembered via familiar items. Zorai, an ancient champion of the angara, was said to have knowledge of the Remnant; however, the soul has been reborn in Taavos, a member of the Roekaar. Esmus gives Ryder the location of an item that belonged to Zorai.
Before leaving the area, you can grab a memory trigger for Ryder Family Secrets. You can also pick up Task: Unearthed from Sage Fleera and A Lost Sister from Sage Amurd. Scannables in the area are an Angaran Sculpture next to the memory trigger (+10) and an Angaran Integrated Tech Node (+100). There is a lootable Mineral Cache.
Note:  Don't forget to deploy the Forward Station before leaving.

Go to the location Esmus mentioned[]

Heading to the navpoint on the Havarl map at the Remnant Abyss, even with forward station shortcuts you will likely run into Remnant, Roekaar, and/or wildlife as well. Past the hostiles is a large Remnant structure, and SAM will notify when you're close to the location Esmus provided. 

Locate Zorai's heirloom[]
Enter the Remnant door and take the gravity well down to the Remnant Abyss. On your map, the facility is angled so that you emerge at the northwest side while the "center" of the area is due southeast. Note:  This walkthrough assumes this is your first time entering the area, as you can actually venture here before this mission, clear it of hostiles, and move architecture around. In that case, grabbing the heirloom is a simple in and out objective from a previously inaccessible part of the facility. Additionally, part of Peebee: Remnant Scanner takes place in this same area, so enemies may respawn even if you already cleared this or there may be other objective/event overlaps.
In the gravity well room is an Adaptive Remnant Core Device (+100). There are two containers in this entrance area, above and below the elevated platform opposite the door going deeper into the facility.


Moving forward, your squadmates speculate about angaran reincarnation and how such a thing might be scientifically possible. You'll find a Remnant console on a small island platform (Do not step into the ferrofluid as it will quickly kill you). Interacting with the console causes all three walls of the room to come down, although the center wall still has a barrier up. If you have to manually save, do it before accessing the console because the enemy beyond the center wall will detect you even through the barrier, preventing further saving until it's defeated later. An autosave is also generated at this juncture in any case.
Remnant will attack from the left wall (northeast) from the console, so be prepared. Enemy composition is random, from any combination of Observers, Assemblers and/or Breachers. There are two Charged Element Zero Stasis jars (+10) there; their explosions can deal a lot of damage to any bots caught in the way. There's also a small container in the same area.
The map psychs you into thinking the objective is just after the chamber with the Remnant bots, but it's actually a dead end. You will have to go the long way around: to the right (southwest) of the central console, through the passage into the heart of the facility. There's a health cache before the first door. Past it are an ammo cache, a lootable container, hostile Remnant in the passageway (again a random selection of Observers, Assemblers and/or Breachers), and another health cache.


Continue until you reach a door, which leads to the shielded central area from the Remnant console earlier; here you'll find a Destroyer alongside a few nonrandom Assemblers. The whole chamber is shaped like a stereotypical boss fight arena: a bunch of cover points and ammo/health caches, some Charged Element Zero Stasis jars for explosion plays, even the platform is atop a ferrofluid reservoir in case you get careless jumping and dashing around the perimeter. It seems the barrier by the entrance console was for preventing you from sniping at the Destroyer, not from it destroying you before you even reach it.
Once the Remnant have been defeated, there's a Remnant console to interact with on the eastern side of the room. The console activates a bridge to the small separate room on the map, which has a container and an Adaptive Remnant Core Device (+100 ). 
Continue northeast through the door. About 90 meters from the objective the guardians of the next room spawn: a bunch of nonrandom Assemblers, and two Nullifiers in a side room. Reachable lootables are two containers, one in the room and one in the side room.


The room has a tall central pillar with two large lootable containers at the top. The side room has a console that extends ledges along the pillar, allowing you to reach the containers. The ledges are spaced just high enough that a bit more careful maneuvering is required. Starting from the ground, use the elevated blocks below the ledges. Hoist yourself up by hand when jumping vertically, then jump-dash to the opposite ledge sticking out from the wall, then jump-dash again to the higher ledge at the pillar. The next jump up puts you near the containers. Technically you can dispense with the dashing and even the elevated blocks, but that's just unnecessarily challenging yourself when the more convenient method has just been explained.
Lastly, using the console not only extends the ledges but also opens the opposite wall, bringing you full circle to the entrance antechamber.


The heirloom is behind a wall. If you visited the area prior to receiving the relevant mission objective this is inaccessible, but now you can interface with the wall to bring it down. Inside are the mushed remains of one of Zorai's descendants alongside an Ancient Data Drive. Examine the data drive for more information. Searching the remains will give you Zorai's Heirloom, apparently a gauntlet of some sort. Other lootables are two containers and an Adaptive Remnant Core Device (+100).
With the shortcut wall now open, you can return to the surface once you've looted everything you need from the facility.

Go to Taavos' Roekaar camp[]

Head to the navpoint at the western side of the Chasm of the Builders. There are Roekaar there, and they have repaired the generator powering the bridge, allowing you to cross. Enemy composition is always a male and a female Raider working the bridge controls, and a Saboteur and a Sharpshooter coming in from the other side. Note:  This section of the mission now grants you access to the other side of the chasm for the rest of the game.
When things have settled down you can scan the bridge for +10. Before crossing the bridge, there is a hidden Angaran Integrated Tech Node (+100) due southwest before the largest tree in the vicinity, next to a giant lump of rock.


When you've crossed about 3/4ths of the bridge more Roekaar will spawn from the gateway platforms, a random combination of up to 6 troops from Raiders (common), Sharpshooters, and Adhi (both less common). Defeat them. They have the initial high ground advantage but they will commonly meet you halfway.
The gateway stairs has some lootables. Underneath the stairs at the second level is a mineral cache. At the top are two containers and a datapad for Task: Roekaar Manifestos. Go through the door to the Ancient Courtyard, where a Forward Station will deploy when you start moving east.
Halfway from the courtyard gate to the destination east, you will get a look trigger where a Roekaar shuttle drops in and unloads Raiders and Sharpshooters. The Sharpshooters tend to beeline towards the available cover spots in this wide open space, so note where they are in case you need to go hunting. Once they are defeated, resume heading towards the objective marker.

Defeat the Roekaar at their camp[]

The camp is located at Old Pelaav. As can be expected, it's heavily populated by Roekaar: Raiders, Sharpshooters, Adhi, and/or Saboteurs, in any combination. Again they have the high ground advantage, and you will have an uphill fight over sets of stairs or adjacent pillars which will be used by the Roekaar to chase you. The hostiles spawn in a staggered manner so even if you snipe off the guys by the stairs before going in the rest will spawn when you approach the top.
After clearing out the stairs, proceed toward the main encampment. There are three relevant buildings in the area and the middle one is locked until you kill all the Roekaar present. Fortunately Taavos is on comms duty inside attempting to radio Akksul, so you won't have to worry about gunning him down with the rest of his pals. 
Once all enemies are down, you can search the two empty buildings for Roekaar manifestos, one in each. The Archive System required to complete A Lost Sister is also found in this area. There are also a few miscellaneous lootable containers, supply caches and mineral nodes scattered about the base.
Warning:  There are "crawlspaces" beyond the cliff walls by the stairs where Roekaar units might accidentally fall into or get "pushed" through. They have no way to get out of there, there's no way of shooting at them there, but for some reason they can shoot at you if they see you, all of which might render the objective unattainable. The only recourse in this scenario is to load an earlier save.

Find Taavos[]
A cutscene dialogue immediately starts when you enter the middle building. Taavos is ready to die, but you instead convince him to hold Zorai's gauntlet. He puts it on and suddenly gains knowledge of an underground monolith, along with emotions not his own. He reluctantly agrees to meet at a set of coordinates and lead the squad to the monolith. When the dialogue has concluded you can talk to Taavos again to learn more about his motivations and beliefs.
In the building with Taavos is a large container and a Roekaar Terminal.

Meet Taavos at the entrance to the lost monolith[]
Head to the northern end of Chasm of the Builders and talk to Taavos. Note:  If you are unable to speak to him, check if you're in combat mode due to wildlife inadvertently following you. Deal with them first, then Taavos should be available to talk if you are also able to pick Fast Travel points on the map.
With his newfound memories, he is able to activate the Remnant technology to enter the Buried Cave where the monolith resides. (Dialogue in this area will be different if you already learned of the Jardaan.)
Walk with Taavos down the path. The cave has a bunch of lootable containers in its nooks and crannies; if you take the time to look around, he'll stop and wait for you to catch up. Urged by his memories, he takes a side path that leads to the remains of another ancient angara, along with an audio log.

Examine the remains[]

The remains turn out to belong to Zorai. Scans and the audio log reveal that she was female, something the sages evidently forgot. Note:  Taavos shows surprise at the gender reveal only with the audio log, but not if you scanned the remains first.

Continue with Taavos to the monolith[]
Continue down the path with Taavos. He leads Ryder to a gravity well, with the third monolith further down and away. 

Activate Havarl's third monolith[]
Once you've landed, there's a Remnant console just ahead. Interface with the console to activate this monolith.
Taavos decides to stay here, as he has much to think about. With all three monoliths active, you can now go to Havarl's vault.
Before leaving, collect the Memory Trigger. On a ledge to the northeast in the area, there's an Adaptive Remnant Core Device for +100 .

Find and activate Havarl's vault[]
Head to the newly revealed vault near Old Pelaav at the Ancient Courtyard. There are a few Remnant near the entrance. Clear out the Remnant and go in the vault doors. Use the Gravity Well.

Turn on emergency power[]
Interacting with the power console. Remnant will spawn and attack the moment the power turns on. 

Lift the lockdown on the vault[]
On the elevated level is a Remnant turret. Activate the turret with the nearby console, and it will assist Ryder during the escape from the vault. There are two Adaptive Remnant Core Devices +200  located on either side the turret.
Directly below the turret and the devices is a hidden rem-tech container behind an energy shield. Jump down to discover the container which will be accessible during the escape from the vault. SAM marks the container on the map.
Several Remnant consoles are now available to interface with, although you must activate them in a certain order to proceed. On approach to a nearby Remnant console, Remnant Lights with glowing blue rotating blocks will emerge from the ground. Each console has a different amount of lights that will appear when approached. To open the door, interact with the console with 1 light, then 2 lights, then 3 lights, and finally 4 lights.
The purification activation console is directly through the door; however, before starting the purge, go around to the other side to find another console to interact with. Solve the puzzle (needed for the Cryptographer Achievement). Ryder receives 2 skill points. For the puzzle console solution, see here.

Escape the purification field and exit the vault[]
When ready, activate the purification console and run. The door closes on and you has to fight off Remnant while the purification cloud approaches. The doors will open in the nick of time but there are more Remnant in the next room as well. You don't have to fight them all if the Remnant turret was activated at the start. When the door opens you get +367 XP.
Run to the container on the lower floor behind the turret and collect the remtech.
Use the console on the upper level to stop the purge and successfully activate the vault.
Note:  The Fusion Mod of Robotics is awarded for lifting the vault lockdown.
You receive +1330 XP, +900 AVP , +55% Havarl viability (the XP doesn't show on screen).

Return to Kiiran Dals[]
Report in to Kiiran Dals at the Pelaav Research Station. Esmus and Taavos are there as well, having been influenced by Ryder's actions. While no outpost can be placed on Havarl, Kiiran Dals invites people from the Initiative to help the research station.

Aftermath[]
You will receive the email "Havarl: Science Team Deployment" once the mission is completed and has returned to the Tempest.




Havarl: Science Team Deployment
To: Ryder
From: Benedict Geffen 

Pathfinder Team: 

The Nexus has approved the request for a multi-disciplinary team to be posted on Havarl (a.k.a. Habitat 3) to assist with the angaran efforts there. 

Primary Team Members:
Dr. Hawkins Macintyre (Xenoanthropology. Team Lead)
Zerra Kessian (Botany, Environmental Engineer)
Farley Berra (Entomology)
Cody Holdren (Quartermaster) 

Both angara and Nexus teams have expressed interesting in having the Pathfinder visit Havarl again to observe cross-cultural efforts. 


Benedict Griffen, on behalf of Director Addison


Acknowledge the email to receive the mission Cross-Cultural Alliances. 
Once this mission is complete, you can now access a well-hidden decryption puzzle (needed for the Cryptographer Achievement) and container. The container awards the Fusion Mod of Adrenaline. Refer here for detailed instructions on locating the puzzle and Fusion Mod.

Rewards[]
+1330 XP
+73 AVP 
+5% Havarl viability
Puzzle Solution[]
Main article: Remnant Decryption Puzzle Guide





Vault ConsoleReward: Skill Points





