


A string of violent murders plague Kadara Port. Reyes Vidal believes the Roekaar are the culprits. He has recruited you to investigate the murders and prove his theory correct.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Go to the crime scene
2.2 Scan all clues in the crime scene
2.3 Meet Reyes at the Roekaar hideout
2.4 Defeat the Roekaar
2.5 Leave the Roekaar hideout


3 Enemies
4 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Murder in Kadara Port

Started automatically after the initial investigation in the aforementioned mission.

Walkthrough[]
Vidal has given Pathfinder Ryder the navpoint  for another murder victim.

Go to the crime scene[]
The crime scene is in one of the houses at Charybdis Point on Kadara. Upon entering the building, Vidal calls on the comm, giving info on the murder victim Zear.

Scan all clues in the crime scene[]
The clues give support for Vidal's theory about the Roekaar being the murderers. You have to scan all of the following items:

Deceased Krogan
Blood Splatter
Bottle
Foot Locker
Footprints
Frying Pan
Knife (Found outside on a container near the door into the building)
There are also two readable datapads in the crime scene, though they're irrelevant to the mission and can be examined later or upon subsequent visits.

Meet Reyes at the Roekaar hideout[]
Head to the navpoint at the hideout  in Draullir, and open the door to proceed to a cutscene. Reyes is not at the hideout. The Pathfinder team is captured by the Roekaar (whose uniform color schemes can change every game state load), and their leader Farah Noskos is indeed the culprit behind the murders. You can try reasoning with her through dialogue, but there's no arguing with an intractable zealot. 
Farah produces a firaan and plans to use it on Ryder, though fortunately Reyes appears in the nick of time and delivers a surprise to the Roekaar: an explosion that knocks them off their feet. They aren't dead yet, so when the cutscene ends and you regain control you're now in for a fight.

Defeat the Roekaar[]
Farah is right in front of you when the skirmish begins so you can easily dispose of her as she's unshielded. Enemy composition is a bunch of Roekaar Sharpshooters, Saboteurs, and Raiders. The battlefield has numerous boxes to hide behind on, though that also works for the opposing force. The Roekaar also have initial high ground advantage at the back of the hideout if some of them manage to fall back.
Reyes joins the fight as an unkillable NPC, though he deals negligible damage, meaning the heavy lifting is still up to you. There are two ammo supply caches in the field, though no health ones. 

Leave the Roekaar hideout[]
After defeating the Roekaar, you can explore the cave before leaving. There are three mineral nodes: titanium (beneath the stairs by the entrance), iridium (northern passageway opposite the entrance), and lithium (southern passageway opposite the entrance). There are four containers: one below the balcony opposite from the entrance, one by the southern passageway, and two on the northern passageway.
A datapad between the branching north/south tunnels reveals that Vidal was right: the Roekaar came to Kadara to get more recruits and started killing aliens and angara friendly to the aliens.




Personal Log: Farah Noskos
New entry: Today, I witness one of our own flirting with that disgusting blue bartender at port. It took all of my self control not to slice him open until he stumbled outside the bar.

Once we have enough recruits, the entire planet needs to be cleansed of alien scum and their sympathizers.


END LOG


Once you've seen everything the hideout has to offer, it has no further significance to the rest of the game and can be forgotten about in case you're going for 100% exploration.
Outside, Reyes pledges to let all the important people know about the good you did. Upon your return to the Tempest he makes good on his word by sending an email:




You're making waves
From: Reyes Vidal

Spread the word at Tartarus and in port of your expert handling of the Roekaar. I only made a few embellishments and left out my involvement, of course. Wouldn't want to steal your spotlight.

Not that I really could—you're something else, Ryder.


Reyes


Enemies[]
Farah Noskos
Roekaar Raider
Roekaar Saboteur
Roekaar Sharpshooter
Rewards[]
+530 XP
+73 AVP 
+5% Kadara viability



