


Abominations are a type of husk created by the Collectors. They act as suicide troops, charging in and exploding next to their targets. They glow red instead of blue like standard human husks.

Contents

1 Mass Effect 2

1.1 Capabilities
1.2 Tactics


2 Mass Effect 3

2.1 Capabilities
2.2 Tactics


3 Trivia


Mass Effect 2[]







Abomination




Type
Organic


Faction
Collectors


Armament
None (Melee)


Abilities
 Self-Destruction  Post-Mortem Explosion


Health
Moderate


Armor
Low


Locations
Collector Cruiser, Derelict Reaper, Collector Base, Aequitas


Abominations accompany groups of Husks in an attempt to overwhelm Commander Shepard in 2185. They are encountered at Collector sites or near Reaper artifacts.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Abominations will charge towards their target much like a regular husk, but it will simultaneously begin to glow and emit flames, then self-destruct once it has gotten close enough to its primary target, dealing heavy damage in a small area. If an Abomination has begun to glow, it will always explode regardless of how it is killed. Abomination explosions also possess a small damage-over-time component that lingers for a few seconds after the initial blast; this is indicated by the burning effect visible on affected targets.
Defensive
The Abomination has moderate health. It gains light armor on Hardcore and Insanity difficulty levels.

Tactics[]
Using Pull on an Abomination is strongly discouraged, as the Abomination may be pulled into close proximity with the player and/or party members before exploding. Instead, powers like Throw, Concussive Shot, Shockwave, or Slam should be used to launch the Abomination back to a safe distance where it will explode away from the party.
Though Flashbang Grenade has a small force component and can knock Abominations down, it usually will not make them detonate unless they are already near death.
Incendiary Ammo is moderately effective against Abominations and their armour.
Unlike regular Husks, the Dominate power can control an Abomination just like other organic enemies. Once controlled, it will run at Shepard's enemies and explode.
Abominations, unlike normal Husks, will not be instantly killed if frozen. If their health is depleted while they are frozen, they will not shatter, but will instead explode after defrosting.
It isn't always feasible, but prioritizing an Abomination in a group of charging Husks can be a good strategy, as its death explosion can instantly kill unarmored Husks in close proximity, saving time and ammo. The explosions won't affect armored Husks.
As with Husks, an Abomination's main weak point is its legs. Shooting its legs or lower half can cause it to stumble and can quickly kill it, though Abominations killed in this way will still explode if they are glowing.
The M-490 Blackstorm can destroy an Abomination without it exploding, as if one is sucked inside a vortex it will simply disappear often without leaving a corpse behind.
Mass Effect 3[]







Abomination




Faction
Collectors


Type
Organic


Armament
None (Melee)


Abilities
 Grab  Post-Mortem Explosion


Health
Moderate


Locations
Armax Arsenal Arena


Abominations return in Mass Effect 3's multiplayer with the Retaliation Pack DLC. They also appear in the combat simulator in the Armax Arsenal Arena added with the Mass Effect 3: Citadel DLC.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Abominations will run towards you and grab you once you're in melee range, dealing a small amount of damage over time. Unless you break free by rapidly pressing the melee attack button, they will explode. They will also explode on death, causing a large amount of damage to anyone unfortunate enough to be caught in the blast, friend or foe. In later waves, they can be possessed, gaining weak barriers and a more powerful explosion. 
Abomination suicide explosions can penetrate thin cover, and they possess a damage-over-time component that can linger after the initial detonation, meaning normal shield recharge is delayed and health damage can result after shields are downed from the blast. 
Defensive
Abominations have low health, albeit a little bit more than Husks. They lack shields or barriers, making them particularly vulnerable to powers. Like Husks, Abominations are immune to the electrocution stuns caused by many tech powers such as Overload and Energy Drain. They are still staggered briefly by these powers, however.

Tactics[]
Their post-mortem explosion can be prevented if the abomination's head has been severed from its body. This can be achieved in several ways:
Successfully breaking the abomination's Grab attack
A fatal headshot; note that the Disciple shotgun is an exception as headshots with the weapon do not destroy enemy heads
The heavy melee attacks of batarians, vorcha, the N7 Shadow, the N7 Slayer, and the Cabal Vanguard
The Batarian Gauntlet heavy melee
Performing an over-cover grab with a character that destroys the enemy's head (krogan or batarian characters).
Human Adepts can knock away an Abomination, but the explosion will not be prevented.
If you aren't one of those characters, it's better to let the Abomination grab you and break its hold to prevent the explosion, assuming you aren't under fire and have enough shielding to absorb its melee damage.
The body-disintegrating effect of geth heavy melee, the Reegar Carbine and the Particle Rifle will not prevent the explosion.
Be very careful when using powers that pull enemies toward you such as Lash or Pull on Abominations. Try to use powers that knock the enemy away (such as Concussive Shot, Shockwave, or Throw) or powers that hold enemies in place (like Snap Freeze and Stasis).
Remember that the Abomination's post-mortem explosion can damage your squadmates if they are close enough.  If possible, try to avoid pulling or knocking an Abomination into your squadmates or killing an Abomination near a squadmate.
A Singularity or Incinerate specialized for area damage can render a tight pack of abominations immobile for up to 8 seconds. Note that the latter doesn't affect Possessed Abominations.
The explosion can also harm other enemies, though the small radius makes it harder to capitalize on it compared to Possessed versions.
In multiplayer mode, like husks, Abominations will take their first few steps, then stop inexplicably and stand up straight. This is an excellent opportunity to line up a head shot, and prevent them from exploding on you when they get closer.
Trivia[]
In the BioWare game Dragon Age: Origins, there are also enemies called abominations, which explode several seconds after death, dealing weak fire damage over large area.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist



Mass Effect 3 Enemies


CAT6

Brooks • CAT6 Heavy • CAT6 Sniper • CAT6 Specialist • Clone • Disruption Drone


Cerberus

Adjutant • Assault Trooper • Atlas • Centurion • Combat Engineer • Dragoon • Dr. Eva • Guardian • Kai Leng • Legion Assassin • Nemesis • Phantom • Rampart Mech • Turret


Collectors

Abomination (Possessed) • Collector Captain (Possessed) • Collector Trooper (Possessed) • Collector Web • Praetorian (Possessed) • Scion (Possessed) • Seeker Swarm (Plague)


Geth

Combat Drone • Geth Bomber • Geth Hunter • Geth Prime • Geth Pyro • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Trooper • Geth Turret


Reapers

Banshee • Brute • Cannibal • Harvester • Husk • Marauder • Ravager • Swarmer




