






This article is about the enemy in Mass Effect 3: Omega. For information about Adjutants in general, see Adjutant.






“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.











Adjutant




Faction
Cerberus


Type
Organic


Armament
Arm CannonMelee


Abilities
 Singularity


Armor
High


Barrier
High


Locations
Omega


The Adjutant is a Cerberus unit encountered in Mass Effect 3. Adjutants are Reaper creatures engineered by Cerberus to serve as shock troops.

Contents

1 Description
2 Capabilities
3 Tactics
4 Trivia


Description[]
"Adjutant" is the Cerberus codename for the experimental subjects created at a secret facility beyond the Omega-4 relay. The creatures are based on Reaper technology, and the adjutants encountered on Omega have the ability to infect any life-form to create a new adjutant.
Adjutants are deadly pack hunters. They initially remain hidden, observing potential victims and distracting them with subtle whispers. When they select a target, adjutants ambush them with charged projectiles that create a violently unstable mass effect field that causes severe disorientation and renders the target helpless. Enhanced muscle tissue gives adjutants the ability to leap surprising distances, allowing them to close in and infect their target quickly.
The baseline form of the being does not match any known species. Xenobiologists suspect that Reapers may have originally created and implemented the virus several cycles before the Prothean extinction and that it still carries genetic traces of its original host. If this is true, then like the Collectors, adjutants are a glimpse into the distant past at a species whose very existence -- and struggle against the Reapers -- has long been forgotten.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Adjutants can fire a charged biotic projectile similar to a Singularity that, upon hitting something, floats in place for a certain amount of time. It damages and disorients targets within its field. At close range, Adjutants will charge and leap at targets, damaging and knocking them down, similar to Brutes.
Defensive
Adjutants have above average armor and barriers, and they are capable of evading power projectiles with a quick sidestep similar to the move used by geth infantry.

Tactics[]
Adjutants take more damage when shot in the sacks on their back. This can be achieved from the front with piercing weapons such as the Black Widow, Javelin, M-98 Widow, and N7 Crusader.
While it is easier to dispatch Adjutants at range, players must be wary of their Singularity projectiles. In confined areas, these projectiles can severely disorient you, staggering you on impact while depleting your shields and preventing their recharge while the Singularity lingers in the area for several seconds. These projectiles also seek, but can be outrun or dodged with combat rolls. The Singularities make a sound that gets louder as they close in so keep your ears open as well as your eyes.
Try to avoid letting an Adjutant close in, as their melee attacks are powerful and difficult to dodge point-blank.
Adjutants scream before lunging into melee, so perform a combat roll to the side when you hear this. Adjutants also crouch low to the ground right before their leaps, so take this into account when aiming at them. Adjutants will reliably try and lunge when they get within a certain range of you, so this can be used to bait them in for a killing blow, or to buy time to run away.
Adjutants move slowly when not close to the player but also silently except for the low growls they make periodically, so don't let them sneak up on you and always prioritize them when possible.
As Adjutants possess only barriers and armor, Warp Ammo and Warp are very effective, especially in succession with Throw.
The power Dominate can be used against the Adjutants that appear in the Mines segment of the mission Omega: Aria T'Loak, but not on the Adjutants unleashed during the final battle in Afterlife (the mind control effects of Dominate will not work, though any secondary effects still will).
Adjutants totally ignore Sentry Turrets, Combat Drones, and Decoys, and are highly resistant to their various stunning effects as well.
A Vanguard Shepard can engage Adjutants directly in close quarters with successive use of Biotic Charge, Nova and Incendiary Ammo. Adjutants, unlike Banshees, have no instant-kill melee attacks and are susceptible to staggers, therefore a Vanguard has plenty of opportunity to deliver fatal blows before an Adjutant can recover.
Trivia[]
In the military, an adjutant is the name of a staff officer who assists the commanding officer in issuing orders.
Adjutants are one of the few enemy types that can't be fought in the Armax Arsenal Arena combat simulator.


Mass Effect 3 Enemies


CAT6

Brooks • CAT6 Heavy • CAT6 Sniper • CAT6 Specialist • Clone • Disruption Drone


Cerberus

Adjutant • Assault Trooper • Atlas • Centurion • Combat Engineer • Dragoon • Dr. Eva • Guardian • Kai Leng • Legion Assassin • Nemesis • Phantom • Rampart Mech • Turret


Collectors

Abomination (Possessed) • Collector Captain (Possessed) • Collector Trooper (Possessed) • Collector Web • Praetorian (Possessed) • Scion (Possessed) • Seeker Swarm (Plague)


Geth

Combat Drone • Geth Bomber • Geth Hunter • Geth Prime • Geth Pyro • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Trooper • Geth Turret


Reapers

Banshee • Brute • Cannibal • Harvester • Husk • Marauder • Ravager • Swarmer




