







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.








This article is about the Advanced Training research project available at the research terminal. For the Advanced Training terminal located in the Shadow Broker Base, see Shadow Broker Base#Advanced Training.

Advanced Training is a research project that grants Shepard a bonus power.
Re-purchasing the Advanced Training research project allows Shepard to select a new bonus power at any time. Any squad points invested in the previous bonus power will be free to redistribute to any power with the exception of one point that will always be assigned to the newly-trained bonus power. The very first time a character learns a bonus power, this point is essentially "free" and isn't drawn from any unspent points. The only way to allocate zero points to a bonus power once one has been unlocked is by using the Retrain Powers research project. 
Shepard may only have one bonus power at a time. Once bonus powers have been unlocked purchasing Advanced Training is not required to gain a bonus power on subsequent playthroughs as this can be done in the character creation process for a new character, or the previous bonus power will be carried over if starting a New Game+. The number of available bonus power choices depends upon the number of related achievements being completed; most of these achievements relate to securing the loyalty of a particular squadmate. 








Bonus Power

Squadmate




Armor-Piercing Ammo

Garrus Vakarian




Barrier

Jacob Taylor




Slam

Miranda Lawson




Fortification

Grunt




Geth Shield Boost

Legion




Dominate

Morinth




Reave

Samara




Energy Drain

Tali'Zorah vas Neema




Neural Shock

Mordin Solus




Shredder Ammo

Thane Krios




Warp Ammo

Jack




Inferno Grenade1

Zaeed Massani




Flashbang Grenade2

Kasumi Goto




Stasis3*

Liara T'Soni


*Legendary Edition:  Bonus power currently unattainable due to bug. See the Talk Page for more information.
1 Requires DLC: Zaeed - The Price of Revenge
2 Requires DLC: Kasumi - Stolen Memory
3 Requires DLC: Lair of the Shadow Broker




