


The Aegis Pack is a DLC pack for Mass Effect 2 that adds a new sniper rifle and armor set. The Aegis Pack was released on July 6, 2010.[1]

Contents

1 Description
2 Content
3 Emails
4 Pricing
5 Trivia
6 References


Description[]
What's better than the latest in high-tech armor? High-tech armor and a sniper rifle, of course! The Aegis Pack adds the M-29 Incisor sniper rifle and the Kestrel armor to Shepard's armor locker.
The Incisor sniper rifle is a burst-fire weapon that excels in destroying enemy shields.
The Kestrel armor comes in five pieces:

The Kestrel Helmet adds weapon damage, shield strength, and headshot damage.
The Kestrel Torso Sheath adds melee and weapon damage and shield strength.
Kestrel Arm Sheathing adds melee and weapon damage and shield strength.
Kestrel Shoulder Pieces adds shields and melee damage.
The Kestrel hip-mounted Power Pack ups shields and heavy weapon ammo capacity.
The Aegis Pack — for those times when overkill doesn't seem like enough.
Content[]
One weapon:
M-29 Incisor
One armor set (five interchangeable parts):
Kestrel Armor
Emails[]



Incisor Sniper Rifle
Shepard,
Miranda was reviewing your weapons' auto-recorded telemetry, particularly the hit-to-kill ratio. Being the busybody she is, she sent a request for additional firepower. The techs think something long-range and anti-shield would be useful, so we've issued you an Incisor sniper rifle. It will be in the Normandy's armory. Put it through its paces, and let us know what you think.









Kestrel Armor
Shepard,
Our armor technicians have had a lively debate about the Kestrel armor system. The suit is supposed to be effective on its own merits, but the technicians felt its shield algorithms were best exploited piecemeal in custom arrangements by combining it with other armors. I've shipped the Kestrel suit to the Normandy. It has modular programming so that you can mix and match the parts you wish.




Pricing[]
The Aegis Pack is available for 160 BioWare Points on PC and $1.99 USD on consoles.

Trivia[]
The M-29 Incisor Sniper Rifle was previously available only as part of the Digital Deluxe Editions of Mass Effect 2.
References[]

↑ Mass Effect 2 DLC






Mass Effect 2 Downloadable Content




Promotional

Blood Dragon Armor • Collectors' Weapon and Armor • Inferno Armor  M-29 Incisor Sniper Rifle • Terminus Weapon and Armor


Cerberus Network

Zaeed - The Price of Revenge • Normandy Crash Site  Cerberus Weapon and Armor • Arc Projector • Firewalker Pack


Missions

Kasumi - Stolen Memory • Overlord • Lair of the Shadow Broker • Arrival


Additional Content

Alternate Appearance Packs •  Equalizer Pack • Aegis Pack • Firepower Pack  Mass Effect: Genesis • Recon Operations Pack • N7 Complete Arsenal Bundle




