




Aite

Region
Milky Way / The Phoenix Massing / Typhon





Planet View


Orbital Distance
1.4 AU


Orbital Period
1.7 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.949


Radius
5,941 km


Day Length
24.9 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.6 atm


Surface Temp
20 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.88 g


Mass
0.758 Earth Masses


Satellites
2


Location: Milky Way / The Phoenix Massing / Typhon System /  Second planet


Colony

Capital
Adrasteia (disputed)


Colony Founded
2104 CE


Population
1,540,000



Prerequisite: Overlord (Mass Effect 2)

Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Assignments
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Trivia


Description[]
Aite is an Earth-like world with a variety of habitable land ranging from deserts to jungles to tundra. It also possesses faint rings, an unusual feature for a non-giant planet. The rings contain rocks up to a meter in length and a wide dust cloud that stretches nearly 23,000 km from the center of the planet.
This impressive celestial phenomenon, however, is dwarfed by the fact that Aite's largest moon, Litae, is in an unstable orbit and is predicted to impact the planet within the next two centuries. Knowing that any Aitian venture is living on borrowed time, colonial population and investment has been orders of magnitude less than other garden worlds.

Codex Entry[]

"Two beautiful moons, one spectacular ring, zero neighbors," says a popular advertisement for this Terminus Systems world. Aite is known for its sparsely settled population despite being a garden planet with a colony nearly a century old. Blessed with a mild climate, wildlife no more dangerous than that on Earth, and soil and bacteria amenable to imported plants, Aite would appear to be an unexploited paradise.
However, it is unpopular for two reasons. The first and most obvious is that its moon, Litae, is in an unstable orbit that will lead to a planetary impact and an extinction-level event within the next two centuries. As such, all investment in the planet is short-term, and the biggest business is selling off the local biota to the highest bidder.
The second drawback is the level of violence on the planet. Like the rest of the Phoenix Massing cluster, Aite was briefly considered part of Citadel space during its first wave of colonization. However, when the colony broke off to become an independent planet in 2133, the Council let the doomed planet go with less than a day of debate. Free from any real governing body, Aite's history has since been filled with wars between small frontier-town city-states over its resources. The result is a dangerous world where the average citizen is expected to be self-reliant to the point of fending for themselves against cutthroat corporations, strong-arm militia groups, and even geth incursions. The fighting is so frequent that the name of the planet itself has changed more than eleven times. In a sign of blunt indifference, standard Citadel galaxy maps refer to the world by the name given to it by human colonists in the latter half of the century.

Assignments[]
Assignment: Overlord (assignment)
Assignment: Overlord: Atlas Station
Assignment: Overlord: Prometheus Station
Assignment: Overlord: Vulcan Station
Mineral Deposits[]
Aite cannot be mined.

Trivia[]
Space Cows can be seen roaming this planet. The Hammerhead VI will alert the player if several are killed, though the VI might imply that the deaths were caused by the Hammerhead's missiles even if the creatures were simply run over.
There are "dragon-like" creatures with four wings that can be seen flying in the distance which may be a reference to the movie Avatar.
The name of the planet, its moon, and its planetary capital are from Greek mythology. Aite is the goddess of delusion and folly. Her power to drive men into ruination can be checked by the Litae, the goddesses of prayer and ministrations. Adrasteia is the nymph tasked by Rhea with caring for and protecting the baby Zeus from his father Cronus in her cave on Crete.



