









Alestia Iallis




Race
Asari


Type
Organic


Armament
Pistol


Abilities
 Throw Lift Singularity Barrier


Health
Moderate


Shields
Moderate


Locations
Noveria


Dr. Alestia Iallis is an asari molecular geneticist educated at the University of Auräis and later stationed at Noveria's Peak 15. She specializes in biotic-enhanced allele-specific hybridization: she's proficient at tracking inherited variations in genetic sequences.
Alestia can be found with the science team at Rift Station. When Commander Shepard meets her, the asari seems oddly calm about the situation and makes a point of being particularly rude when answering questions, accusing the Commander of interrupting her meditations.
Shepard can ask about her job and Matriarch Benezia, but Alestia says she does not know Benezia any more than Shepard knows President Huerta of Earth. If Liara is present, Alestia suggests that the Commander ask her about Benezia instead.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




If Shepard agrees to help Dr. Zev Cohen develop a cure for sick scientists, the squad are let into the quarantined lab by one of Captain Ventralis' guards and locked in under the arrangement that they will not be released until they are scanned clear of the biotoxin. Once the cure has been made, the squad is ambushed by Alestia, now accompanied by a group of geth: Alestia turns out to be an asari commando under orders from Benezia to kill Shepard at the first opportunity, and is delighted that the squad is trapped in the lab for quiet disposal. Things do not turn out in her favor, however, as she and her team are killed in the ensuing fight.
After dealing with Alestia, Shepard and squad note the fate of the murdered guard outside the lab and return to confront Dr. Cohen about the attack. When the Commander demands to know whether it was a setup, Dr. Cohen asserts to have been utterly unaware of Alestia being a commando, saying that a month ago she was transferred to Peak 15 at the behest of an investor, Saren Arterius.
If fighting breaks out between Shepard and Rift Station's guards before Alestia sheds her cover, unlike the other civilians she disappears from her post.

Tactics[]
Since you will be fighting in a confined space, you need to take Alestia out quickly before she has the chance to use her biotic abilities, or you will probably be picking yourself off the floor several times. Damping effectively disables her biotics.
While Alestia is only armed with a pistol, it is still a concern that she is accompanied by two Geth Troopers and an Asari Commando.
Use talents like Throw, Lift, or Singularity to tie them up, and then riddle them with bullets to prevent them from getting back up.
Trivia[]
Alestia Iallis is voiced by Shanelle Workman.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





