




Alingon

Region
Milky Way / Hourglass Nebula / Faryar





Planet View


Orbital Distance
10.1 AU


Orbital Period
31.7 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
1.025


Radius
3,085 km


Day Length
56.3 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.04 atm


Surface Temp
−166 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.5 g


Mass
0.116 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Hourglass Nebula / Faryar System /  Fifth planet

Prerequisite: Priority: Thessia (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Mineral Deposits
3 Search and Rescue
4 Trivia


Description[]
Alingon (which means "deceptive") was so named by salarian scouts because as their probes landed on the planet their instruments started going awry. This turned out to be due to the high concentration of magnetically active periclase (magnesia) in the core and crust of the planet. This interferes with scans and broadcasts, which has given rise to countless spacer stories of pirates lying in wait in Alingon's magnetosphere or crashed ships with untold fortunes stranded on the surface. In reality, any pirates would have a hard time locating prey amid all the interference and would live lives cut off from the rest of the galaxy because the magnetosphere kills extraplanetary communication.
Alingon's other natural features are a thin atmosphere of carbon dioxide, spectacular dry ice formations, and xenon gas, which can be skimmed from the upper atmosphere and used in ion thrusters.

Mineral Deposits[]
Initial Scanner Result: Rich



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

High

11,500


Platinum

Medium

8,700


Iridium

High

10,400


Element Zero

None

0

Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Shadow Broker Starship Tech
Trivia[]





“I said get back!” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Redemption follow.




The planet's natural electromagnetic shroud made Alingon a perfect location for a command center for the Shadow Broker, only he has the technology that can reliably cut through the interference, but it forces his hirelings to come to the planet in person for orders and to make any calls on his behalf offworld; essentially working as additional security for his information network. Liara T'Soni and Feron followed Tazzik to Alingon in an effort to retrieve Commander Shepard's body.



