




Amaranthine

Region
Milky Way / Horse Head Nebula / Fortuna





Planet View


Orbital Distance
3.86 AU


Orbital Period
12.0 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.399


Radius
6,694 km


Day Length
59.7 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
1.19 atm


Surface Temp
−178 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.16 g


Mass
1.268 Earth Masses


Satellites
1


Location: Milky Way / Horse Head Nebula / Fortuna System /  Third planet
Prerequisite: Destroying the two pirate bases on Mavigon and Klensal as part of UNC: Hostile Takeover (Mass Effect).

Contents

1 Description
2 Assignments
3 Points of Interest
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Lifeforms
6 Properties
7 Trivia


Description[]
Amaranthine is a chilly rock world with an atmosphere of carbon dioxide and nitrogen. Its frozen surface consists largely of light titanium and aluminum oxides, with deposits of thorium and other heavy metals located in the deep crust. Amaranthine was named by the human poet Sofia Cabral during her tour of duty aboard the Alliance surveyor ship Kupe. Under the dim light of the red dwarf Fortuna, the surface of this world is lit in rich twilight blues and purples even at midday.

Assignments[]
Assignment: UNC: Hostile Takeover
Collection: UNC: Turian Insignias: Insignias ×1 (Galatana Colony)
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals: Heavy Metal ×1 /  Rare Element ×2

Points of Interest[]



Location

Appearance

Description


1

Initial

Engineering outpost (UNC: Hostile Takeover)


2

Initial

Turian Wreckage (UNC: Turian Insignias)

“You find an intricate beaded necklace marked with the Galatana Colony insignia. It appears to be very old.”




3

Initial

Crashed Probe (requires average Electronics to salvage.)


Mineral Deposits[]

Main article: UNC: Valuable Minerals


Location

Element

Class


1

Iridium

Heavy


2

Uranium

Rare


3

Thorium

Rare


Lifeforms[]
Helena Blake
Mercenaries
Mercenary Snipers
Properties[]
One moon is visible from the landing site.
In addition to having a moderate breeze, the operational area on the planet has very poor visibility due to the twilit conditions. Many points of interest lie on or at the foot of highlands, requiring Mako traversal up and down mountainous terrain to reach. 

Trivia[]
The word 'amaranthine' is a term meaning 'unfading' or 'everlasting', but also refers to a deep purplish-red colour, likely the source of the planet's name.
Despite being considerably colder than both Xawin and Mavigon, Amaranthine has no cold hazard level. This may be because unlike Xawin and Mavigon, Amaranthine has no active blizzard, whereas the former two planets do.
Amaranthine and Chohe have exactly the same in-game geography.
Amaranthine's moon is the same asset as the one used to represent satellites on the skyboxes of Klensal, Ontarom, Eletania, Binthu, and Feros (original version of Mass Effect only).
BioWare also used this name for the primary setting in the Awakening expansion for Dragon Age: Origins. It is a coastal region in the northeast part of Ferelden.



