


Sage Amurd's sister, Amara, left Mithrava years ago. He longs to see Amara again, but she likely moved away from Daar Pelaav when it was overtaken by the jungle. However, records of her whereabouts might still exist.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 ON HOLD: Wait for a way to cross the chasm to Old Pelaav
2.2 Locate records in Old Pelaav
2.3 Return to Sage Amurd


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Talk to Sage Amurd (marked with a) and Pallah in Mithrava to acquire this mission.

Walkthrough[]
ON HOLD: Wait for a way to cross the chasm to Old Pelaav[]
The mission objective is on the other side of an impassable ravine, so this mission is on hold until you reach Go to Taavos' Roekaar Camp in A Dying Planet. At that point, Roekaar will have enabled the bridge across the chasm, so the mission can continue.

Locate records in Old Pelaav[]
At the navpoint  in the Roekaar encampment in Old Pelaav, one of the buildings on the right will have an Archive System. Interacting with the archive reveals that it lacks power. Hop out of the nearby window to reach a Generator. Repair the generator and return to the Archive System to activate it. A hologram begins playing and Ryder is able to learn that Amara Dosen was moved across the planet.

Return to Sage Amurd[]
Back in Mithrava, talk to Sage Amurd to give him the data drive with his sister's information. He could go visit her, but he is afraid of leaving his home. You can either let him decide on his own, or encourage him to see his sister.

Aftermath[]
If you don't advise Amurd on what to do, you get this email.




Thank You, Pathfinder
To: Ryder
From: Pallah 

Pathfinder, 

Thank you so much for helping Amurd discover what happened to his sister, Amara. Somehow, finding out where she went has eased his mind somewhat. I am trying to make his last months comfortable by keeping him happy with the decisions he's made. 

I would never have expected such generosity and understanding from a stranger. It makes me wonder if we made a mistake by isolating ourselves. Such a narrow experience we have... 

You've given us all much to think about. 


-Pallah


If you encouraged Amurd to visit his sister, you get this email.




Thank You, Pathfinder
To: Ryder
From: Amurd

It is I, Amurd.

I write to you now from Amara's home, on the other side of Havarl. I am surrounded by her children and grandchildren, whom I have never met, but who welcomed me as though they'd known me all their lives.

I left my home, only to find another one. Though I wish I had done this years ago, I am grateful for the time I have left. This would not have happened without your help.

It is beautiful here.


-Amurd


Rewards[]
+530 XP



