









Anjik Do Xeel
Commander

Race
Angara


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Anjik Do Xeel is the commander of the Angaran Resistance Base on Voeld, and is in charge of Resistance operations on the planet.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Anjik's relatives include her mother, Lavaala, Falet, and Arjaan Do Xeel. Arjaan died defending Techiix, taking nearly a dozen kett with him, and was deemed a hero by his immediate superior officer. Anjik tried to break the news of his death to her mother, but the message remained an unsent draft in one of the computers in the base.
The Resistance commander has a cordial relationship with fellow Resistance fighter Jaal Ama Darav, self-appointed observer to the newly-arrived aliens from another galaxy.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Since the Tempest initially lands on the outskirts of the Resistance base, and going through the base is required to explore the rest of Voeld, Pathfinder Ryder first encounters Commander Do Xeel in the operation center, with varying degrees of welcome depending on existing reputation.
Anjik gives off a wary reception to a Ryder that has just started attempting to prove their trustworthiness, even threatening to kill them (expressed in angaran eloquence) at the first sign of betrayal. She makes it clear Jaal's referral is the only thing that allowed the Pathfinder into the base, and she refuses to talk until Ryder has done something to aid the Resistance, claiming she's busy.
On the other hand, she gives a warmer welcome if the Pathfinder already helped on Havarl, or if they already rescued Moshae Sjefa from the kett before talking to her; in the latter two cases Anjik deems the Pathfinder an ally of the angara, and she makes time for follow-up questions.
Whichever the case, Anjik has no ear for pleasantries; she has a muted reaction if Ryder tries to joke about their first meeting, chalking it up to weird translation hangups. She suggests that Ryder should meet her lookouts Beniska and Tseek outside the base to receive updates on the local situation.
The Commander can be asked about the front lines (if Jaal is with the squad), the Resistance's history, and its leader Evfra de Tershaav.
On Voeld, the Resistance keeps the kett at bay for the moment but is losing its advantage as the war goes forward. The local Resistance forces are too few even if Evfra sent young and untrained recruits to help the war effort. To make a difference, Anjik needs skilled fighters, medics and technicians. At the moment, she is unable to strike a decisive blow to change the course of the war.
Anjik holds Evfra in high regard and thinks that his stern personality is what the Resistance needs. According to her, Evfra rallied a bunch of civilians and created an effective army and tactics. Even if she doesn't always agree with him, she would follow him everywhere as many members of the Resistance would.
The Commander can sometimes be overheard conferring with Olisk on various matters. On hearing the kett are moving against Techiix, she wants to double security and send nightly patrols since the daar depends on the Resistance for its protection. Following a report from Hjara Station about losing their vehicle to the kett, Anjik inquires if they need a replacement. She doesn't want to know what happened upon hearing Yaret "handled" the matter. Evfra sent over some recruits to Voeld, and in Anjik's estimation they're young but show promise.

Trivia[]
Asking about the front lines will give an option to find recruits for the Resistance, though this is not followed by the Journal and no option is given to actually follow up on this request. However, there are individuals on other worlds that can be persuaded with Jaal's help and consequently show up in the base: Sjaan on Elaaden and Kalja on Kadara. Rjoek on Voeld can also be persuaded to join the Resistance, though he doesn't show up at the base.



