




Antaeus

Milky Way / Hades Gamma







System View


Stellar Mass
N/A


Stellar Class
N/A


Luminosity
N/A


Planets
6


Moons
0


Asteroid Belts
0


Asteroids
0


Objects
1


Antaeus is a system composed of four terrestrial worlds and two gas giants. None of the terrestrial planets are livable, although Trebin is undergoing some terraforming efforts. Should those efforts be successful, a helium-3 refining facility is expected to be built on Edmos. The worlds have potential in untapped resources, although exploitation is discouraged for the time being due to rough terrain and hostile environments.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




The system has a few mysteries to ponder on. On Trebin is a buried Reaper artifact that transformed the survey team that discovered it into husks. Massive structures have been detected on the gas giant Ploba, although the exact nature of these objects is yet undetermined.

Contents

1 Mass Relay
2 Ageko
3 Edmos
4 Hunidor
5 Ploba
6 Trebin
7 Vemal
8 Trivia


Mass Relay[]
Main article: Mass relay
Ageko[]
Ageko is the first planet orbiting the star Antaeus.

Main article: Ageko
Edmos[]
Edmos is the second planet orbiting the star Antaeus.

Main article: Edmos
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals:    Gas Deposit ×1
Hunidor[]
Hunidor is the sixth planet orbiting the star Antaeus.

Main article: Hunidor
Ploba[]
Ploba is the third planet orbiting the star Antaeus.

Main article: Ploba
Collection: UNC: Asari Writings: Matriarch's Writings ×1
Trebin[]
Trebin is the fourth planet orbiting the star Antaeus.

Main article: Trebin
Assignment: UNC: Missing Survey Team
Collection: UNC: Turian Insignias: Insignias ×1
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals:   Rare Element ×2
Vemal[]
Vemal is the fifth planet orbiting the star Antaeus.

Main article: Vemal
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals:   Rare Element ×1
Trivia[]
The system's name may be a reference to Dante's Inferno, the first canticle of his Divine Comedy, in which Antaeus is one of the guardians of the ninth circle of Hell.



