


See also: Strike Teams, APEX HQ, Mass Effect: Andromeda Multiplayer

After the arrival of the Initiative in Andromeda, the recently formed militia in the Nexus begun recruiting anyone, soldier or mercenary, to serve on the front lines in the APEX Strike Teams.
Here follows a list of communications related to briefing and debriefing for the missions given by APEX HQ Team. They are related by APEX leader Tiran Kandros and Heleus News Service.

Contents

1 Prologue

1.1 APEX Mission 1 - Drack's Missing Scouts
1.2 APEX Mission 2 - Something’s Gone Berserk


2 The Remnant Investigation

2.1 APEX Mission 3 - These Beautiful Killer Bots
2.2 APEX Mission 4 - Those alien artifacts aren't for you
2.3 APEX Mission 5 - Archon's Remnant Fortress


3 Remnant Descent

3.1 APEX Mission 6 - Chasing The Archon’s Obsession
3.2 APEX Mission 7 - Unraveling the Remnant
3.3 APEX Mission 8 - Deeper into the Ruins


4 Roekaar Occupation

4.1 APEX Mission 9 - Roekaar Occupation
4.2 APEX Mission 10 - Chasing Roekaar Intelligence
4.3 APEX Mission 11 - Don’t Go Looking for Trouble


5 The Call From Inside

5.1 APEX Mission 12 - The Call From Inside
5.2 APEX Mission 13 - Unknown Connections
5.3 APEX Mission 14 - Hiding in plain sight


6 Along For The Ride

6.1 APEX Mission 15 - Along For The Ride
6.2 APEX Mission 16 - Roadside Assistance
6.3 APEX Mission 17 - Stepped On The Anthill


7 Unstoppable Force

7.1 APEX Mission 18 - Unstoppable Force
7.2 APEX Mission 19 - Destroy radiation weapon
7.3 APEX Mission 20 - Disable purge weapon
7.4 APEX Mission 21 - Immovable object


8 Signs Of Life

8.1 APEX Mission 22 - Signs Of Life
8.2 APEX Mission 23 - The Pulse
8.3 APEX Mission 24 - Hearts Of Iron
8.4 APEX Mission 25 - Ambush The Enemy


9 In Need Of Heroes

9.1 APEX Mission 26 - In Need Of Heroes
9.2 APEX Mission 27 - Deal With The Devil
9.3 APEX Mission 28 - Enemy Of My Enemy
9.4 APEX Mission 29 - The Evil Voice


10 Recover Failed Mission Data

10.1 APEX Mission 30 - Recover Failed Mission Data
10.2 APEX Mission 31 - Disarm High Alert
10.3 APEX Mission 32 - Investigate Signal Disruption


11 APEX general missions

11.1 APEX Missions

11.1.1 Bronze
11.1.2 Silver
11.1.3 Gold
11.1.4 Platinum


11.2 Strike Teams Missions

11.2.1 Bronze
11.2.2 Silver
11.2.3 Gold




12 See Also


Prologue[]



 	 	 			  



 	 	 			  


APEX Mission 1 - Drack's Missing Scouts[]

A number of krogan scout patrols have gone missing on a kett-held planet. Their last known position was near Firebase Paradox, a kett base build around Remnant artifacts they've been analyzing and exporting off-planet. We need to fan out and investigate. 
“
APEX BRIEFING


Tiran Kandros, Leader of APEX Militia
Good morning. I’ll keep this brief—I know you’d rather be in the field. If we haven’t met, I’m Tiran Kandros. I guess I run the militia here on the Nexus. But I need teams out in the Heleus Cluster: defending our outposts, hunting down key targets, and pushing back enemy forces before they threaten the station. I need elite soldiers and operatives who think on their feet, protecting the Initiative and our allies at any cost.
That’s where you come in. Welcome to APEX.
I’ve seen the dangers of the Heleus Cluster up close. My scouting team was taken by the kett. We got a front-row view of their “experiments.” Counter-terrorism doesn’t prepare you for that kind of butchery.
How did we escape? First, let’s clear one thing up: I wasn’t a “hero.” My restraints were loose, that’s all. The kett were too… busy to notice they’d left a gun lying around. Once I’d freed the rest of the team, we taught the kett a lesson. I still don’t know why everyone acted like I was in charge, even after we got back to the Nexus. But that’s how the militia got started: with good people who knew what we were up against.
Besides the kett, we’ve got bands of outlaws and exiles, out for revenge against the Initiative, or credits, or both. And now Pathfinder Ryder’s team has reported these strange “Remnant” machines who can threaten an entire outpost if they’re provoked. You, and the rest of your APEX colleagues, are our first line of defense.
Today’s mission will show us what you’re capable of. The krogan have lost contact with several of their patrols. We’ve tracked the scouts’ last known position to a kett-controlled world—which means trouble. I need you to get down there, hack the kett systems, and bring back any intel on what they’re up to.
This could be the first move of a larger plan by the kett. I don’t like it. But I trust you to get the job done.

Good luck, APEX.
— APEX HQ


“
Hunting Kett with a Krogan Gladiator


APEX. Nakmor Drack here. Your boss Kandros said I could address you pyjaks directly. Big mistake.
Here’s the deal. After the swarm of trouble that went down on the Nexus when we got to Andromeda, the krogan decided we’d… stretch our legs a little. Morda had me scout out whatever this Heleus clusterfuck had to offer. I handpicked a bunch of degenerates to help. All krogan, of course. They formed up, paired off, and headed for what waited.
My orders were simple: “Find some plants? Pick ’em. Find some bad guys? Pick ’em off. And maybe find us some salvage.”
Then a bunch of my scouts went missing. Gone without a word. Pretty sure that means kett. They’re good soldiers, so it must’ve been some ambush.
I’m sure they’re still out there somewhere. Krogan don’t die easy.
Kandros and I compared notes, and we think we got a lead. You APEX are the lucky bastards who get to check it out. Just not without a krogan. We’re assigning one of our best to keep you honest. A biotic. They call her a “gladiator” and for good reason: she’ll smash a beast in the face and make you clap for it. Even fought with Aralakh Company back home.
With a gladiator on your team, you’re bound to find something. If what you find is my scouts, tell ‘em I’m proud. And remind them what I said when they left New Tuchanka: “A wound’s as a good as a medal and a loss is as good as a win—if you learn from it.”

Drack
— APEX HQ Team


APEX Mission 2 - Something’s Gone Berserk[]

A kett ship has veered too close for comfort to the Nexus. Intels indicates some of the missing krogan were taken aboard. We need to infiltrate this ship, neutralize the threat, and follow up on the krogan experimentation. 
“
MISSION BRIEF


Official Transcript: Nexus-Aya Defense Communication 027
Present: Tiran Kandros (Nexus Militia / APEX Leadership), Evfra de Tershaav (Angaran Resistance Leader, Operations Director)
Evfra de Tershaav: The information your APEX teams retrieved from the kett is… disturbing. If it’s accurate.
Tiran Kandros: My people are the best. We can trust their intel.
Evfra: From what we’ve translated, these… krogan? Is that how it’s said? The krogan scouts were taken by the kett—
Kandros: Like we suspected. Damn it.
Evfra: But these records show that after the usual tests, the krogan were picked as potential “khesorai.” A kett word that crops up in their comms. It usually signals that some senior kett thinks a prisoner is… worthy.
Kandros: Worthy for what? More of their experiments?
Evfra: For a process that—hmm. Better not discuss it over these channels. For now, just know the kett call it “Exaltation.” Those who endure this process are never the same.
Kandros: Well, if we don’t know exactly what the kett are doing, we might know where. I have reports that a massive kett ship has suddenly changed course. She’s skirting systems close to our Nexus—might even be heading for the station itself.
Evfra: Likely testing your defenses. It could be a coincidence.
Kandros: A coincidence too far. My scouts picked up evidence that krogan were taken onto that ship. That’s enough for me: I’m sending APEX teams to board it and deal with the kett before they get within a parsec of the Nexus.
Evfra: Pledge to share your findings, and I’ll commit Resistance assets to their mission. What do you expect them to find?

Kandros: Trouble. But trouble is where APEX are at their best.
— APEX HQ


The Remnant Investigation[]



 	 	 			  



 	 	 			  


APEX Mission 3 - These Beautiful Killer Bots[]

The kett's fascination with the Remnant means that the bases are near important Remnant sites. We need to find out why.
“
MISSION BRIEF


Good morning, APEX. Kandros again.
A lot has happened since our last briefing. APEX welcomed a krogan biotic into its motley ranks—and with her help, we took down a behemoth. I thought exaltation was scary before I learned it could happen to a krogan.
Now we turn our attention to the Remnant: the Heleus Cluster’s automated security system. These bots aren’t always hostile, but when they are, watch out. Observer lasers leave a mark.
Few on the Nexus know this better than our newest APEX operative: a salarian, trained by the STG, who’s been taking apart Remnant since some of you were still in cryo. The guy really seems to know his stuff. He actually reprogrammed an Observer to fight alongside us. He calls it GLK—or “Glick” out loud.
Don’t ask me what the name means.
We’re still working hard to answer some key questions about the Remnant. We know the kett are asking a lot of these same questions. They might even have some answers we haven’t found yet. It doesn’t help that exiles are harvesting parts to sell and build tech.
We need you to infiltrate Remnant sites with our new friends. See what you can find. Remnant hate so much as a glare in their direction, so walking right into their house isn’t going to be easy.
Arm yourself, shoot what you have to, but try to take some notes. Nexus brass would rather not fight everything in Andromeda if they can help it.

Kandros out.
— APEX HQ


APEX Mission 4 - Those alien artifacts aren't for you[]

Scavengers were stealing Remnant artifacts to sell on the black market. The more they took the more the kett came knocking. Not sure why the kett are so interested. We needed to get those back. 
“
MISSION BRIEF


To: Kelly Lanz
From: Unknown 
I hope this reaches you through whatever comm filters the Nexus has going…
We haven’t really spoken since the uprising. Can’t say I blame you for not joining us in exile. Hell, I hear you’re APEX now. That’s crazy.
When Sloane's faithful dug into Kadara, I joined up with a bunch of ambitious types who wanted to go digging for tech instead. “Scavs,” most people call us. “Outlaws” in the obituary, please.
There’s power out there, Kel. Weird Remnant tech we can’t crack. Mostly we sell it by weight or just make up stories about what it does. There’s a sucker in every galaxy.
A few people are starting to get more creative. Really taking the stuff apart. Tinkering. They solder pieces together to make garbage. One guy tried to use the heat from the lasers to build a toaster. He’s dead now.
But that’s not why I’ve risked reaching out to you. Thing is, the more we salvage, the more the kett seem to come knocking.
The other day, we found an especially shiny haul in a cave that went on forever. Wasn’t too far in before we had to put down nine, maybe ten bots. They took a couple of us with them to robot heaven. But we dragged a fortune of tech out of there. And I’m pretty sure that was just the lobby.
Ever since then, the kett have put the pressure on us hard. I’m starting to think we shouldn't be messing with this stuff. Like, maybe we’ve found something important. I told the others we should stop. Keep to what we know. They won’t listen… and I’m not gonna stick around to find out what the kett want with this tech… or with us.
My gang’s last known coordinates are attached. The Remnant stuff they’re sitting on needs to be in Initiative hands, not ours. By the time your team touches down, I’ll be long gone. Kadara. I’m not proud.
A warning, though: when my gang sees APEX, they’re gonna put up a heck of a fight.

Tell ‘em I say hi.
— APEX HQ


APEX Mission 5 - Archon's Remnant Fortress[]

Retrieved artifacts gave us the location of a cave network where the Archon keeps a collection of Remnant. In order to gain vital intel, we went there to find out what the Archon was doing with that Remnant tech.
“
MISSION BRIEF


APEX. Scout team just checked in. We need you on the ground ASAP.
The Sandstorm raid was a hell of a success. One of the outlaws we took down gave up a cave chock-full of Remnant. Intel says they were salvaging bots and scrap in the cave when the kett descended. A lot of them. By the time our team arrived, it was already a mess: kett fighting Remnant on top of heaps of dead outlaws.
Our scouts managed to draw the kett clear of the cave. While they hold them off, we need you inside to see what’s so damned important. Kett studying Remnant isn’t news, but all the data we’ve collected says the Archon’s onto something big. We think whatever’s in this cave is key. You’ll just have to cut down a lot of bots to get to it.
In close quarters especially, it’s easy to get pinned down. Stay together and watch each other’s backs in there. Flanking a wave will keep any laser eyes from ganging up. When it comes time to extract, don’t head for the point right away. It’ll just give the Remnant a chance to box you in until you’re good as dead.
Good luck down there.

Kandros
— APEX HQ


Remnant Descent[]



 	 	 			  



 	 	 			  


APEX Mission 6 - Chasing The Archon’s Obsession[]

We had intel that the Archon was about to try reactivating a special Remnant prize. We needed to go in and destroy his plan.
“
MISSION BRIEF


>> ENCRYPTED COMMUNICATION RECEIVED
>> CONFIRM APEX TEAM ID - ***.****.***
>> AUTHORIZATION CONFIRMED>> RUNNING DECRYPTION…
Kandros here. Excuse all the cloak-and-dagger; Intelligence is taking point on this one. Our analysts have been
decrypting the data recovered from those Remnant caves, and we've finally got our next lead.
The kett Archon is obsessed with Remnant technology. We know he's onto something big—a Remnant device with a unique energy source. From these readings, the Archon's close to reactivating it. And whatever that device was meant to do, our scientists here at the Nexus are saying its potential destruction is in the megaton range.
I want that device out of the Archon's hands, and his plans stopped cold. But Intelligence asked me to keep this one under the radar to protect other ops. So we go dark.
Your objective is the kett facility where they're trying to activate this Remnant device. You'll be dropped in while the weather conditions have their sensors confused to eliminate the kett presence there quickly and quietly.
To make sure everything runs smoothly, you'll be working alongside a new asset: a turian agent from Intelligence. He's former corporate security, an expert in reconnaissance and information gathering, but he can hold his own in the field. His recon expertise and tactical cloak will have him playing hide and seek with the enemy. Do this right, you'll take the kett down before they know what hit them, stop their plan for that device, and leave their Archon ranting at shadows.
Good luck, APEX.

>> DELETING MESSAGE…
— APEX HQ


APEX Mission 7 - Unraveling the Remnant[]

We needed to return to the Archon's favorite dungeon to uncover what he's researching - and find out why this place was so special. 
“
MISSION BRIEF


Unraveling the Remnant Interdepartmental Communications Log - Nexus Tech Labs
[Tech Lab VI] Remnant Artifacts #43-#51 Added to Work Queue
[Prof. Herik] More Remnant artifacts, delivered for study! I've left them on your workbenches.
[Chief Lucan] C'mon, Herik, at least Ryder's team wipes their finds down first. Now there's silica dust all over.
[Tech Lab VI] Janitorial Notification: Sent to Superintendent Kesh
[Dr. Aridana] Chief, may I take Artifact #47? I would like to run some tests.
[Chief Lucan] Reassigning to you. Got something cooking?
[Dr. Aridana] Perhaps. APEX's last operation disrupted the Archon's attempts to reactivate a Remnant device, and allowed their intelligence division to intercept the base's transmissions. Many of them discuss the kett's attempts to datamine the device and understand Remnant code.
[Dr. Aridana] Why does the Archon have such an interest in particular Remnant locations and artifacts? I believe that, with a touch of subterfuge, we could use the Archon's own insatiable curiosity to find out.
[Prof. Herik] Oh?
[Dr. Aridana] I plan to write a tracer program that uses Remnant code as a disguise. If uploaded at just the right location, one where the kett have been active—
[Prof. Herik] —the kett might download it in their Remnant investigations, and be none the wiser! Like a corivel mistaking a coral-banded traxus for a balkus grub, and taking it back to its nest! Ha!
[Chief Lucan] …right. 'Course.
[Tech Lab VI] Database Information Request: Coral-Banded Traxus / Balkus Grub
[Dr. Aridana] With the tracer hidden in kett systems, we could have insight into the Archon's schemes. But it must be uploaded at a Remnant site the kett are still investigating. That is no easy task.
[Chief Lucan] Didn't APEX find a Remnant structure the Archon was interested in?
[Dr. Aridana] If they would be willing to set foot in there again, and if they can upload the tracer… this could unravel whatever web the Archon is weaving.

[Tech Lab VI] APEX Operation Proposal: Sent to Tiran Kandros
— APEX HQ


APEX Mission 8 - Deeper into the Ruins[]

We needed to follow every lead to uncover the special Remnant tech that Archon believes he has.


“
MISSION BRIEF


Remnant Tracer Program Report - SAM Node (Autogenerated Text Entry)
After a successful upload into Remnant systems by APEX personnel, Dr. Aridana's tracer program was downloaded by kett forces attempting to reclaim Remnant technology in that area.
In addition to providing useful data into how kett study Remnant technology, the tracer gave insights into multiple unknown Remnant devices, glyphs, and data patterns hooked to kett monitoring devices. This enabled us to shut down the Archon's most significant Remnant device, before the tracer program was detected and neutralized.
The Remnant artifacts infiltrated by the tracer, however, are of particular interest. According to the kett studies monitored, these artifacts are actually components removed from some kind of Remnant observatory. Evidence suggests it is still active and accessible from a hidden gravity well in the caves previously explored.
I strongly recommend sending APEX to investigate this Remnant observatory and hack its systems for more complete data. Though reclaiming it from any active Remnant will be dangerous, the communications cached in these Remnant artifacts suggest that the observatory is receiving signals that have gone undetected by Initiative observers. From my initial transcriptions, they deserve immediate investigation.
[DATA: Raw signal transmission received by Remnant observatory. My analysis accounts for attempted auto-translation by Remnant systems and data fragmentation.

ANALYSIS: "…trying to boost the signal. Unknown if… tech seems to be helping even if we don't know the… back to Keelah Si'yah. …way home."]
— APEX HQ


Roekaar Occupation[]



 	 	 			  



 	 	 			  


APEX Mission 9 - Roekaar Occupation[]

A Roekaar cell occupying Firebase Aqua held crucial information. We needed to retrieve it and take out the hostile cell. 
“
APEX BRIEFING


APEX, Kandros here. We’re tracking a development at an angara facility codename Firebase Aqua that’s been taken by a Roekaar cell. We need to get in there and take it back. Evfra de Tershav, leader of the Angaran Resistance, has asked to address you directly.
Soldiers, this is Evfra de Tershav [sic] – Let’s talk about the Roekaar.
The Roekaar are angara, but I assure you they are our mutual enemy. They must be confronted and eliminated. I hate the Roekaar, and I want to tell you why:
Among my mothers, I had a favorite (most angara do but won’t admit it). I loved my mother Joevett because she was unshakeable and passionate in her beliefs, but she showed more kindness and empathy than anyone I knew. She taught me that empathy was not weakness, but strength.
She was also our family’s storyteller. She loved to recount the forgotten stories of Voeld before the Scourge: its massive cities, its technology, its life. Once, she built an instrument from a description in an ancient poem—it looked wrong and played no music. One day, she brought all the siblings and cousins to a mountain so we could throw it over the edge and blast it with shotguns. Laughter was important then.
Not long after, the kett took my family. “Scooped them up”, as we say. My mother Joevett wasn’t there that day, so she wasn’t taken—but she was changed forever. You see, the Roekaar prey on survivors like her. A cell recruited her to fight the kett—then the “Milky Way intruders”, and finally… her own people.
I came face-to-face with her on the battlefield recently. Resistance vs. Roekaar. My favorite mother looked at me with the kindness and empathy that I remembered… then she shot me. I don’t know what happened to her after that, but at that moment I vowed to fight the Roekaar until Heleus is rid of their hatred and lies. The kind of evil that makes a mother shoot her own son.
The kett took my family, but the Roekaar took my heart. We must end them.

Evfra out.
— APEX HQ


APEX Mission 10 - Chasing Roekaar Intelligence[]

The Roekaar on Firebase Aqua transmitted the key intel to an occupied outpost on Voeld. We needed to intercept it before it was disseminated to all Roekaar combatants. 
“
APEX BRIEFING


URGENT: Highly sensitive and timely information.
Forwarded to Nexus Command by Angaran Resistance:
Resistance Intelligence Intercept
Parties: Between Unknown Combatant at Firebase Aqua and Roekaar Command on Voeld
Begin translation:
[UNKNOWN ROEKAAR] Commander, we’re under imminent attack but our hackers have discovered exciting, unexpected intel.
[COMMANDER OJAEG] Go ahead. This channel is secure.
[UNKNOWN ROEKAAR] We’ve discovered a systemic weakness in the Milky Way enemy’s shield tech that our scientists can exploit.
[COMMANDER OJAEG] Incredible news. We can bring our enemies down, all at once. Transmit the intel to the outpost on Voeld. Once we figured out exactly how we want to deliver our ‘code bomb’, we can send instructions out to all of our bases.
[UNKNOWN ROEKAAR] Beginning transmission now.
[COMMANDER OJAEG] You’ve just saved the lives of many of your Roekaar brothers and sisters. Such heroics won’t go unrewarded.
Transmission ended
Commander Kandros, Evfra has asked me to pass the above correspondence to you at once. He urges you that this intel can’t be allowed to be disseminated from that base on Voeld. It would be disastrous, deadly, to both the Initiative and Resistance causes.

Good Luck to you and your troops.
— APEX HQ


APEX Mission 11 - Don’t Go Looking for Trouble[]

The Roekaar transmission caught the attention of a particular kett commander - and Firebase Aqua was in trouble.
“
APEX BRIEFING


Comrades in arms. Friends. Kandros here.
Our time in Heleus has been intense, filled with conflict both internal and external, expected and unexpected.
First let me say: when I joined the Initiative and left for Andromeda, I never intended to lead a military life. However, the life I’ve created here in Heleus—this life as director of the militia—is more challenging and rewarding than anything I had imagined. And it’s because of all of you and your commitment and expertise. I’m lucky to lead such skilled soldiers. Sure, you’re a rag-tag militia called into duty when you’d rather be settling Andromeda—but no commander of a dedicated army could ask for better.
Now, the mission: the kett. Those assholes. I’m sorry I have to send you out to take on those soulless, ugly, bone-faced, motherless, ignorant bastards once more. In all my career, I’ve never encountered an enemy more despicable than the kett and their genocide disguised as reproduction.
Firebase Aqua—recently recaptured from the Roekaar—has been taken by the kett. Hideous grey cowards. Walking filth. We need you to get in there and do as much damage as you can—reduce their numbers, sabotage, mess their shit up.
You can do it. Have fun. Show those stupid, pompous bastards what good ol’ evolution can do. Show them that integrity and decency is powerful and that it can kick ass.

It’s an honor to serve with you. Kandros out.
— APEX HQ


The Call From Inside[]
       

APEX Mission 12 - The Call From Inside[]
We believe an intruder accessed our equipment inside Firebase Magma to trace a signal. Surveillance indicates it's a damn Batarian! We should investigate.
APEX Mission 13 - Unknown Connections[]
The search for the second Batarian pirate leads to an abandoned Kett tower. We'll send a distress signal from there. Careful though, there's outlaw camps nearby.
APEX Mission 14 - Hiding in plain sight[]
A Kett ship answered the call and the Batarian we're looking for is in the pilot's chair. Unfortunately, local outlaws have caught on that something's up.
Along For The Ride[]

APEX Mission 15 - Along For The Ride[]
The outlaws damaged the Batarian-piloted vessel. We'll have to collect salvage from another Kett ship to repair it.
APEX Mission 16 - Roadside Assistance[]
We’ve brought the Batarian-piloted vessel to the Firebase Derelict for repairs, but the Remnant are going crazy here for some reason.
APEX Mission 17 - Stepped On The Anthill[]
Firebase Derelict and Firebase Paradox are swarming with Remnant. We can't guarantee the Batarians' safety until we solve this mess.
Unstoppable Force[]

APEX Mission 18 - Unstoppable Force[]
Outlaw looters have seized a firebase. At your discretion, APEX, this is a prime opportunity for field-testing the Juggernaut."
APEX Mission 19 - Destroy radiation weapon[]
"We've equipped you with additional shields to survive the radiation levels, but you must be cautious."
APEX Mission 20 - Disable purge weapon[]
Remnant are dismantling our firebase with an unknown technology that also destroys organic matter. Stop them.
APEX Mission 21 - Immovable object[]
We need you to hold the firebase while the rescue vehicle is delayed.
Signs Of Life[]

APEX Mission 22 - Signs Of Life[]
Remnant are unusually active in the old Archon's ruins. We've been contacted by a specialist Artificer who insists we investigate.
APEX Mission 23 - The Pulse[]
We have little Remnant expertise, but before the Artificer went AWOL, she claimed that something was different about these. We need to rescue her.
APEX Mission 24 - Hearts Of Iron[]
The Artificer is hell-bent on salvaging tech from Remnant Progenitors. She seems convinced they are too purpose-built to counteract APEX technology.
APEX Mission 25 - Ambush The Enemy[]
We'll attract an enemy commander's attention and steal their valuable intel.
In Need Of Heroes[]

APEX Mission 26 - In Need Of Heroes[]
Firebase Zero is under siege by kett forces. With limited supplies, we need you to hold out while we mobilize our most decorated operatives.
APEX Mission 27 - Deal With The Devil[]
We don't know what the kett offered rebel groups on the furthest fringes of the cluster, but now we've got twice the problem we had before. We need the best.
APEX Mission 28 - Enemy Of My Enemy[]
Kett are hunted on sight in Kadara, and a pirate captain is leveraging this for some unlikely allies. We can't afford to let outlaw numbers swell with kett.
APEX Mission 29 - The Evil Voice[]
Someone or something appears to be manipulating a significant number of Remnant and is using this to control warring factions on the fringe.
Recover Failed Mission Data[]

APEX Mission 30 - Recover Failed Mission Data[]
An APEX squad fell before completing their mission. You must finish what they started.
APEX Mission 31 - Disarm High Alert[]
We can't finish the joint operation while the enemy is on high alert. This mission is short, but incredibly dangerous.
APEX Mission 32 - Investigate Signal Disruption[]
We need to re-establish contact with our Firebase. Be careful. You could be walking into a deadly situation.
APEX general missions[]
APEX Missions[]
These missions can be performed by APEX Strike Teams or with a group in Multiplayer.
Note: Unlike any other APEX Missions, Platinum difficulty Missions can only be performed by the Multiplayer mode.

Bronze[]

Acquire enemy research:
An enemy group is performing medical research that's yielded some promising and dangerous results. Infiltrate the facility and get us that research.

Celebratory mission:
A special mission, available for a limited time for a special occasion.

Distract enemy forces:
We need the enemy to pay attention to something other than our planned activity. Hit them as loudly as possible to draw their attention so that we can deploy forces covertly.

False flag operation:
We've got intel about bad blood between multiple hostile groups in the area, and we'd like to encourage that. Take out one group and leave evidence to incriminate another.

Investigate weapon reports:
We've heard rumors of enemy forces moving weapons through the area. Hit the enemy base and find out what they're moving, and where.

Recover supplies:
We've located wreckage that can be salvaged for useful supplies. Send a team to recover what they can.

Silver[]

Celebratory mission:
A special mission, available for a limited time for a special occasion.

Clear an escape route:
Friendly forces are trying to escape enemy pursuit. Clear them a path, and discourage the enemy from coming after them.

Delayed evacuation:
We need to hold the firebase while the rescue vehicle is delayed.

Eliminate arms smuggler:
We need a team to eliminate a target that's smuggling arms to a nasty outlaw group.

Gather Intel:
Dispatch a team to hack an enemy transmitter we recently located and relay relevant intel discovered.

Locate and remove comm taps:
Enemy operatives planted taps to monitor a number of our comms. We need a team to find and remove those devices.

Recover the artifact:
Rumors of a significant Remnant artifact have surfaced. Send a team to investigate and recover anything they find.

Gold[]

Celebratory mission:
A special mission, available for a limited time for a special occasion.

Clear a supply route:
Enemy forces are threatening an important supply route. Clear our people a safe path. 

Eliminate enemy saboteurs:
We recently lost several supply stations to enemy saboteurs. Unfortunately for them, we located their base. Get in there and take the down.

Gather resources:
We received intel on a hidden cache of resources. Send a team to recover it-we need every advantage we can get.

Locate new resources:
We've got reports of valuable mineral resources in a area with hostile activity. Find out if the enemy is sitting on anything we want, and make the think twice about how much they want it.

Protect embedded informant:
An informant embedded in our enemy's forces thinks she's been discovered. Take out the team she's with while she extracts safely off-site.

Platinum[]

Celebratory mission:
A special mission, available for a limited time for a special occasion.

Investigate a possible trap:
We've picked up some leaked intel that looks too good to be true. Investigate the lead and be ready for an enemy ambush.

Obtain tech prototype:
We've heard reports of a valuable new tech prototype in the area. Investigate the facility and obtain that prototype.

Perform a surgical strike:
An enemy facility is currently blocking our strategic plans. We need it destroyed quickly and quietly.

Recover stolen power generators:
Hostile forces stole power generators that one of our colony sites depends on for survival. Hit them hard and get our allies the supplies they need to keep the lights on.

Retake an occupied facility:
One of our key facilities was taken by enemy forces, costing us supplies and intel. Retake the facility before the enemy can lock it down.

Strike Teams Missions[]
Unlike the previous APEX missions, these missions can only be performed by APEX Strike Teams.

Bronze[]

Delay ship launches:
Hostile forces are planning to launch several ships that could threaten our operations. Keep those ships from launching until our forces are ready to fight them.

Destroy enemy warships:
Enemy warships have been wreaking havoc in the area. Ground those ships before they can do any more damage. 

Eliminate hazardous materials:
We've got reports of hazardous materials at one of our facilities. Dispose of them safely so we can retake the location.

Identify enemy loadouts:
We need to determine whether hostile forces intend to capture one of our installations or destroy it entirely. Hit their supply base and identify the loadout of their heavy weapons.

Identify the spy:
We have reason to believe one of our people is giving intel to the enemy. Hit an enemy communication center and get us a name.

Measure enemy response:
We're planning a large operation and need to know response time and strength of our targets. Poke the hornet's nest and report on their reactions.

Obtain dead-drop data:
An agent embedded among enemy forces left us vital intel at a dead drop. Locate and retrieve it before enemy troops discover the drop.

Protect engineering personnel:
An engineering team is en route to a critical mission, and we believe the mission site and take out any hostiles before the team arrives.

Protect sensitive equipment:
Sensitive equipment vital to terraforming and colonization efforts is at risk of falling into enemy hands. Protect it at all costs.

Sabotage enemy operations:
Hostile forces are resisting our attempts to gain a foothold in the area. Hit their base and sabotage their operations while we prepare an offensive.

Sabotage the enemy:
We've spotted a large enemy force with gaps in their security. Sneak in and take out their supplies to leave them vulnerable.

Silver[]

Determine enemy strength:
Hostile forces appear to be planning an attack, but it may be a feint to distract us. Harry their defenses and get an accurate estimation of their strength.

Disrupt enemy communication:
Sensors detected transmitter that's relaying enemy communications. Dispatch a team to disable it.

Eliminate the traitor:
One of our people turned traitor and is working with hostiles forces. Hunt him down and take him out before he does any more damage.

Establish anti-ship batteries:
To utilize a potential site, we need to secure it against enemy bombardment. Secure the facility so we can establish anti-ship batteries.

Intercept enemy data:
Intel says data on enemy combat plans is en route to a key adversary. Send a team to keep that data from reaching its target.

Investigate facility:
We received reports of a new facility, and it's not clear who is running or what their goal is. Investigate and determine if the facility presents a threat.

Obtain encryption key:
We've been unable to break the enemy's recent encryption protocols. Hit their listening post and obtain an encryption key before they can destroy their own data.

Obtain mining locations:
The enemy is in possession of detailed mining locations. Hit their operations center and get us those sites.

Protect the outpost:
Outlaws are harassing one of our outposts. Send in a team to protect it until we can establish permanent defenses.

Punish killers:
Enemy forces recently targeted a small unarmed ship and killed all aboard. Send them a message about what happens to people who kill unarmed civilians.

Sabotage weapons shipment:
Hostile forces are set to receive a major weapons shipment. Take out the enemy team and stop that weapons shipment from reaching its destination.

Sabotage enemy operations:
Hostile forces are resisting our attempts to gain a foothold in the area. Hit their base and sabotage their operations while we prepare an offensive.

Scout the unknown:
Sensors detected a potentially valuable new area. Assemble a discovery team and dispatch them to investigate.

Gold[]

Disrupt enemy movements:
The enemy is moving troops through a key area. Disrupt their activities to open some holes in their defenses.

Disrupt enemy supplies:
Hostile forces are putting pressure on our people. Take out their supply line to give our troops room to breathe.

Establish a listening post:
Our planned surveillance operations are blocked by the presence of an enemy base near our ideal site. Take out that base and give us a hiding place.

Establish a supply depot:
Our efforts have been stymied by a supply shortage. We need you to take an enemy facility and convert it to a supply depot we can use.

Investigate unknown signals:
Unknown signals are interfering with our communications in the area. Check the origin coordinates, find the source, and shut it down if hostile.

Obtain enemy ship location:
Enemies have been catching us by surprise, and we've been unable to locate their strike ship. Hit their resupply center and find out where that ship is.

Obtain prototype schematics:
Rumors are circulating about schematics for a new prototype based on Remnant tech, and we need to investigate. Get into the targeted research facility and find out if the rumors are true.

Recover stolen habitation data:
Enemy forces stole our data on possible habitation sites, then corrupted our local copies. Hit their site and get us that data back.

Search and destroy:
Enemies were reported in the area. Hunt them down!

Uncover enemy plans:
The enemy has been quiet lately, and it's likely that they're planning something. Hit one of their listening posts and pull intel on upcoming plans.

See Also[]
Strike Teams
APEX HQ
APEX Missions website
APEX HQ website



