









Arcelia Silva Martinez




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Armament
Assault Rifle, Shotgun


Abilities
Unknown


Health
Low


Shields
Moderate


Locations
Feros


Arcelia Silva Martinez is a human colonist at Zhu's Hope, on Feros. Originally a "rent-a-cop" for ExoGeni Corporation, she was hired to "keep kids from writing graffiti on the walls".







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




After the geth attack, Arcelia took shelter at Zhu's Hope, having possibly scouted the Prothean Skyway. She spends most of her time talking with Fai Dan. Though she can give an idea of the tactical situation—at least one dropship at ExoGeni Headquarters and Geth Armatures on the Skyway—Arcelia remains very negative and hostile when Commander Shepard arrives, claiming the Commander's heroics do not impress her. She feels neglected because government organizations pledged to keep colonists like her safe, though they only sent one ship for the rescue effort and their supposed savior is more interested in the geth than the people. If Shepard comments on the strange behaviour of the colonists at Zhu's Hope, Arcelia snaps that they are civilians, who were never trained to deal with the horrors of war. 
Arcelia has been infected with Thorian spores and, like the other colonists, fights to defend the Borealis when Shepard returns from ExoGeni Headquarters. She initially lies in wait at the colony entrance barricades along with some colonists and Hollis Blake.
If she survived the attack on the freighter, Arcelia apologises for her behaviour; she tried to fight against the Thorian's control, but any thought of her own was excruciating. She's more optimistic this time if most colonists also survived, relishing in the challenge to rebuild the colony. Alternatively, if the colony became nonviable she laments the wasted effort and mulls going back to working security around Jump Zero, supposing that she should be lucky to get away with her life.

Trivia[]
Arcelia is voiced by Wendy Braun, who also voices Gianna Parasini.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





