









Archon

Race
Kett


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
Robert Kazinsky


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


The kett Archon is a primary belligerent against the Pathfinder team. By way of introducing himself, he demands that the Pathfinder team either "surrender or burn."

Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect: Andromeda
3 Trivia
4 References







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
In the Kett Empire, an Archon is a leader of groups of kett assigned to specific locations within the galaxy, with the purpose of gathering new species viable for exaltation and sending related data back to their homeworld. This Archon leads the Heleus Cluster contingent. He has maintained control of the cluster for almost seventy-five years through long, patient strategies and brutal subjugation. According to the angara, the Archon blinded them with promises of friendship and gifts before turning the angaran leadership against one another and ordering the conquest of their worlds.
This Archon has a keen interest in the Remnant machines that are found all over Heleus, and has devoted significant time and resources to uncovering their secrets. Learning of an angaran expert on the matter, Moshae Sjefa, the Archon ordered her capture and brought her aboard his flagship Verakan for interrogation, then sent her to Voeld for exaltation.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]

The kett leader has a facility on Habitat 7 near a Remnant monolith. Following reports that humans have interfaced with the monolith and changed the planet's weather, the Archon personally travels to the site to investigate, using a drone to holographically recreate Alec Ryder's movements inside the atmospheric processor. He storms off to hunt these people who can seemingly control the machines.
The Archon mobilizes his fleet aboard Verakan. His ships later intercept the Pathfinder team's Tempest upon its arrival in the Onaon system and pins the ship against the Scourge. The Archon contacts the Tempest, demanding to know who on the ship activated the Remnant. Pathfinder Ryder opens a dialogue, and the Archon requires they go with him. The Tempest outruns his fleet instead, navigating through the Scourge, resulting in a few kett ships being destroyed by the anomaly in their pursuit.
Later, the Archon contacts the Cardinal on Voeld during Ryder's assault on the Cardinal's base. The kett leader orders the Cardinal to expedite the Moshae's exaltation and bring her directly to him, but Ryder is able to save the angara scientist before that could happen.
Paarchero, the salarian ark, falls into the Archon's hands and becomes tethered to his flagship in the Tafeno system. The Archon begins experimenting on some of its occupants, as well as on some krogan scouts. When Ryder comes to their rescue, the Archon immobilizes the human and their squad in the flagship's central laboratory. The kett leader takes a blood sample from Ryder, and simultaneously injects a device into their SAM implant before leaving. 


The Pathfinder breaks free from stasis via SAM temporarily killing them then makes it to the Archon's sanctum, where he keeps a museum full of Remnant artifacts. The Archon, via hologram, then announces his realisation that SAM is what enabled Ryder to access Remnant technology. He's about to order his flagship to fire on the ark and Tempest in order to strand Ryder, when Pathfinder Zevin Raeka sets off an EMP, enabling both ships to escape.
In spite of Ryder's escape, the Archon has gained access to the human's memory flashes from when the Pathfinder was clinically dead. The Primus reminds the Archon that their orders were to exalt the Heleus Cluster, not research the Remnant, and that their superiors are questioning his leadership. The Archon believes seizing control of Meridian would grant the kett the power to turn entire planets into wastelands, making it the perfect weapon to force their enemies to submit to exaltation or face annihilation.
Ryder can encounter infighting between two groups of kett on Elaaden. Later investigation reveals that a group of scientists felt that the Archon was beginning to be 'obsessed' with the Remnant, blocking off communications with their homeworld and straying away from their goal in Heleus. Manifestos made by the Primus imply that the Archon intends to be the sole controller of Remnant technology and may openly rebel against the kett homeworld.
Pathfinder Ryder later goes to Khi Tasira, a Remnant space station believed by the Archon to be Meridian. The Pathfinder learns that Khi Tasira is just a control node for Meridian, and has tracked the location of the latter via the station. The Archon then appears to them via hologram, revealing he has seized ark Hyperion to sever SAM's connection to the Pathfinder. He then proceeds to capture Ryder's sibling, who also possessed the SAM implant he needs to access Meridian, though not before the Ryder twin reboots the Pathfinder's connection. With Hyperion leading his fleet, the Archon arrives at Meridian first, with the Tempest leading a Remnant fleet in pursuit. Once Hyperion enters Meridian, the Archon sabotages and abandons the ark to distract Ryder while he takes his hostage to Meridian Control.
In the battle for Meridian, the Pathfinder tracks the Archon and his troops to the control chamber where he had plugged himself into the system, summoning a multitude of Remnant bots, including an Architect, to attack Ryder, declaring that anyone resisting him deserved no more mercy. With the Archon using too much power, Ryder's sibling is able to use their connection to activate consoles for the Pathfinder to disconnect the kett leader from the system, resulting in his death. After the battle, Initiative scientists retrieve the Archon's body and conduct an autopsy, with one theorizing that the Archon had invested too much of his mind into the Remnant systems during the battle, and his abrupt disconnection from Meridian fragmented the Archon's consciousness.

Trivia[]
In the mystical groups collectively known as Gnosticism, an Archon is a semi-divine being created by the False-God Demiurge (who is unaware of the real god/s). They are oppressive figures that govern the world, creating its state of misery and devouring the souls of the dead.
In the Dragon Age series, another Bioware franchise, an Archon is the mage-ruler of the Tevinter Imperium.  Like his Dragon Age counterparts, Mass Effect's Archon appears to be a ruler possessing some sort of advanced power, possibly biotics.
According to lead designer Ian Frazier the Nexus was originally named the Arkcon before being renamed on the same day Archon was named for "completely different reasons."[1][2]
References[]
MASS EFFECT™: ANDROMEDA – Official Cinematic Trailer #2

↑ https://twitter.com/tibermoon/status/824807097619664896

↑ https://twitter.com/tibermoon/status/824807589238161412





