


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
A report has come in from New Tuchanka about a giant Remnant construct that has appeared and is working a path towards the outpost. 
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Speak to outpost leader
2.2 Defeat Architect

2.2.1 Interface with the Architect


2.3 Speak to outpost leader


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Settling Elaaden

Pathfinder Ryder receives an email after the Elaaden Outpost is established.





Issue on Elaaden
To: Ryder
From: Kariste Archana

Hello, Pathfinder.

There's something here on Elaaden I need your help with. Not the krogan-- I'm handling them perfectly well. But this issue might be too big for me. 

Find me at the outpost and we'll talk more.

Kariste Archana

Leader, New Tuchanka Outpost


Walkthrough[]
Speak to outpost leader[]
Head to the Elaaden Outpost on Elaaden and speak to Kariste Archana. Kariste is in the southeastern building of the outpost. Ask her about "outpost status" to progress the mission. Kariste tells you that an Architect has been spotted outside the settlements. She's worried that it will attack if it comes across any colonists.

Defeat Architect[]
The Architect can be found in the Languish region directly south of the Forward Station (southwest of New Tuchanka). The area doesn't seem to be a heat hazard, so your only problem is the Architect itself.
Defeating the Architect is a four-phase fight: destroy the three leg conduits and finally the head conduit.
The Architect has devastating weapons so keep moving to avoid getting hit. The Architect also spawns Remnant forces in waves. 
Refer to the Architect page here for detailed tactics on taking down this impressive enemy.
You receive +2660 XP for destroying the Architect.

Interface with the Architect[]
Ryder receives +400 AVP  and +10% Elaaden viability.
Looting the Architect container yields the following::

A Remnant data core for Task: Remnant Data Cores
Fusion Mod of Tech Mastery
Random Augmentations
Random High Value Salvage
Random Rare Minerals and Materials
Speak to outpost leader[]
Return to Kariste Archana to complete the mission.

Aftermath[]
The defeated Architect is floating in Elaaden's atmosphere: "Architect Husk: Elaaden". It can be looted from the Tempest using the Galaxy Map (+50 ).

Rewards[]
+530 XP (will not display on screen)



