









Armor Merchant

Race
Krogan


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


The Kadara Market's Armor Merchant typically sells armor made from hybridized Heleus technologies such as Maverick Armor sets.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




The armor merchant is hassled by an Outcast pirate, which prompts her to declare Sloane Kelly's discount doesn't extend to her grunts. The pirate takes issue with it, but the merchant just tells him to buy something or leave as she has other customers. She's willing to give Keema Dohrgun the same discount as Sloane, but she doesn't want to extend the same courtesy to the Charlatan as she doesn't deal with ghosts. 
Later, the pirate returns with two more goons and dares the merchant to settle the score out in the badlands. The issue is eventually settled peacefully however: the merchant contacts Kaetus and tells him to rein in his "varren" as she might not be so restrained next time. Kaetus obliges and additionally waives her protection fee for the next month.
When Pathfinder Ryder first talks to her, the armor merchant disparages the human's squishiness and claims to have the best armor in all of Kadara. If Ryder finds her wares pricy, the merchant replies they look like they can afford it. If Ryder wants to test the krogan's claims, she directs them to browse her console.



Mass Effect: Andromeda Merchants


Aya

Merivaas • Oniijev • Quartermaster Istaal • Sohkaa Esof • Yveth


Elaaden

Annea • Barruk • Blood Threshers Manager • Boomerang • Team Ryncol Manager


Eos

Clancy Arquist • Prodromos merchant • Techiix merchant


Havarl

Cody Holdren


Kadara

Armor merchant • Arms Dealer / Relia Ythos • Black Market Dealer • Mods Merchant • Thrasia


Nexus

Armor merchant (Common Area) • Arms merchant (near holding cells) • Arms merchant (Common Area) • General merchant (Common Area) • Vehicle merchant (Common Area)


Port Meridian

Jezra's Acquisitions • Supply by Cal


Voeld

Bennett Kahele • Jackson Cross • Merchant (Techiix)  • Merchant (Hjara Station)




