









Arms Dealer

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


The Kadara Market's Arms Dealer typically sells weaponry made from hybridized Heleus and Initiative technologies such as the Sandstorm, the Sidewinder, and the Vanquisher.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




The arms dealer is approached by a local angara who wants to buy a gun. She pitches her available stock of wares, but the angara changes her mind. Later, the angara returns and decides on a pistol. The dealer wasn't sure she'd see the angara again, so she obliges giving the angara the Carnifex she asks for. She also offers shooting lessons for a price, as she tells the angara upon feedback from her new gun. The angara appears to take her up for it, figuring she wants to be ready in case the kett return.
When Pathfinder Ryder first talks to her, the arms dealer tells them she's honored by their presence (and credits). If Ryder takes it as a threat, the dealer assures them they'd never hurt a potential customer. If Ryder jokes about finally getting some respect, the dealer claims she's happy to oblige. She doesn't allow any test runs of her wares, though.
Following the showdown between the Outcast and Collective leadership, if the Outcasts won the arms dealer expresses surpise at Reyes Vidal being outed as the Charlatan. He did a few jobs for her, and she assumed he was merely skilled at what he does. If the Collective won, she disappears from her stall and is replaced by Relia Ythos, who sells the same items as her.



Mass Effect: Andromeda Merchants


Aya

Merivaas • Oniijev • Quartermaster Istaal • Sohkaa Esof • Yveth


Elaaden

Annea • Barruk • Blood Threshers Manager • Boomerang • Team Ryncol Manager


Eos

Clancy Arquist • Prodromos merchant • Techiix merchant


Havarl

Cody Holdren


Kadara

Armor merchant • Arms Dealer / Relia Ythos • Black Market Dealer • Mods Merchant • Thrasia


Nexus

Armor merchant (Common Area) • Arms merchant (near holding cells) • Arms merchant (Common Area) • General merchant (Common Area) • Vehicle merchant (Common Area)


Port Meridian

Jezra's Acquisitions • Supply by Cal


Voeld

Bennett Kahele • Jackson Cross • Merchant (Techiix)  • Merchant (Hjara Station)




