









Asari Clone




Race
Asari


Type
Organic


Armament
Shotguns, Pistols


Abilities
 Throw Warp Barrier


Health
Moderate


Shields
Low


Locations
Feros


Asari Clones are asari commandos extruded by the Thorian. Unlike most asari, they are green-skinned. They are used by the Thorian not only for defense but to communicate with outsiders like Commander Shepard, because the Thorian cannot speak except through its thralls.
Oddly, given the fact they are created inside the Thorian, each clone emerges dressed in the brownish uniform common to all commandos, and armed with a shotgun and a pistol.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




The Clones were created from Shiala, a powerful biotic who followed Matriarch Benezia and later Saren Arterius, after she fell under indoctrination and joined his cause.
Shiala was given to the Thorian as part of a trade Saren made with the creature, in exchange for the Prothean Cipher. Shiala melded with the Thorian to gain the Cipher, and then remains part of it until Shepard confronts the Thorian and frees her.

Tactics[]
The Clones' main offensive is their powerful biotics, which can knock squad members over and leave them vulnerable to the Thorian Creepers' acid attack. Use Damping to prevent the Clones from using their biotics, and stay in cover to avoid their attacks.
Legendary Edition: The Clone rarely makes use of her Throw, and doesn't target Shepard with it anymore.
The Clone's weapons can be lethal especially on higher difficulty settings. The shotgun packs a punch at close range while the pistol tends to be fired rapidly. The Clone has a chance to switch weapons when approached within melee range. Use Sabotage to disable them.
Clones can't be ragdolled by Weapons Force ammo upgrades, though sufficiently leveled biotics and tech talents can.
Neural Shock and Warp help get past the Clone's robust shields.
Because of the structure of the building, if the Clone is close to the edge of the platform, a strong enough Throw will knock the Clone off the edge for an instant kill. The same works for Shepard, so it's recommended to stay away from the edges.
Despite the fact they are created by the Thorian, the Clones are not instantly killed by anti-Thorian gas grenades. It is therefore advisable to save the grenades for Thorian Creepers.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





