






This article is about the multiplayer character in Mass Effect: Andromeda. For the skill in Mass Effect: Andromeda, see Duelist.



Asari Duelist






Race
Asari


Rarity
Ultra Rare


Availability
Unlockable


Biotic warrior with a sword, high mobility, and both damage and defense powers.
The Asari Duelist is a former Justicar. She keeps her distance from the other team members and harbors doubts about whether she made the right choice in coming to a new galaxy.

Skills and stats[]





 Health: 475     Shields: 250


Powers

Backlash


Charge


Lance


Passives

Offensive Biotics


Barrier


Veteran Bonus


Melee

Asari Sword


Bonus Stat

Max Shields


Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
This class seems built around the Asari Sword, a powerful melee weapon that provides a brief teleport to increase its effective range and help avoid incoming gunfire. Charge should be used to get the Duelist into melee range, and a shotgun with a Shotgun Melee Mod attachment can help improve the sword's lethality.
Backlash has some utility when closing in to kill clumps of enemies with the sword, as it can interrupt their own melee attacks and frees you to stab another one.
Lance is here to provide a ranged option. If configured to use shields, pairing it with Charge with Rank 6 Bastion enables a core usage loop based on almost unlimited Lance spam, as long as there are enemies remaining to Charge at for replenishing shields.
The Duelist is a pure detonator character as she has no natural primer skills. Combo explosions must be primed by teammates, or if going solo, ammo consumables are essential.
Kett[]

Outlaw[]

Remnant[]
A melee-oriented Duelist might flail around due to the Remnant's abundance of floating units. Backlash is essential to turn their continuous damage streams back at them.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Multiplayer and APEX HQ







Common

Human Adept • Human Engineer • Human Infiltrator • Human Sentinel • Human Soldier • Human Vanguard


Uncommon

Asari Adept • Asari Sentinel • Krogan Engineer • Krogan Vanguard • Salarian Infiltrator • Turian Soldier


Rare

Angara Insurgent • Asari Huntress • Batarian Scrapper • Human Artificer • Human Commando • Human Guardian • Human Juggernaut • Krogan Mercenary • Salarian Architect • Turian Agent • Turian Havoc Trooper


Ultra Rare

Angara Avenger • Angara Exemplar • Asari Duelist • Batarian Vanguard • Human Kineticist • Krogan Gladiator • Salarian Operator






