


For the Asari Sentinel in Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer, see Asari Valkyrie Sentinel.


Asari Sentinel






Race
Asari


Rarity
Uncommon


Availability
Unlockable



Tactical defense expert, with tech armor and a versatile power set.
A former asari commando, the Asari Sentinel joined APEX to escape some of the... less-pleasant things she experienced while serving in her commando unit.

Skills and stats[]





 Health: 475     Shields: 250


Powers

Backlash


Throw


Energy Drain


Passives

Offensive Biotics


Tech Armor


Veteran Bonus


Melee

Biotic Punch


Bonus Stat

Health & Shield Regen Delay Reduction


Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
Can pull off of one of the highest Tech Combo damage increase at range in the game: 80% (50% from Offensive Biotics and 30% from Throw detonated off of Energy Drain).
Kett[]
Although only Destined and Anointed use shields, they can both be very deadly, making Energy Drain a useful, if limited, power.
Throw can be very effective against Wraiths, which tend to swarm players. Hitting them from far away before they can cloak assures that they will not take players by surprise.
Due to the kett's tendencies to cluster together, Tech Combos from Energy Drain and Throw are very effective.
Outlaw[]
Due to the Outlaws infrequent use of shields and the fact that many enemies are armored, the Asari Sentinel will struggle the most against this faction.
Backlash can easily deflect Sharpshooters' shots, as right before they fire, a laser will shine on the player and a distinctive sound can be heard. Additionally, since it is only one shot, Backlash's cool down will be very quick.
Berserkers and Hydras like to use explosives, which will instantly break Backlash. It is not recommended to use this power if they are nearby.
Remnant[]
Since Remnant use explosives infrequently and Breachers are the only enemy type that does not tend to fight at long-range, Backlash is extremely effective.
Energy Drain is very useful, as all Remnant enemies are synthetic and thus take bonus damage. With the rank 5 Extended Drain upgrade, Energy Drain followed by Throw can deal a lot of damage to many enemies at once through tech combos.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Multiplayer and APEX HQ







Common

Human Adept • Human Engineer • Human Infiltrator • Human Sentinel • Human Soldier • Human Vanguard


Uncommon

Asari Adept • Asari Sentinel • Krogan Engineer • Krogan Vanguard • Salarian Infiltrator • Turian Soldier


Rare

Angara Insurgent • Asari Huntress • Batarian Scrapper • Human Artificer • Human Commando • Human Guardian • Human Juggernaut • Krogan Mercenary • Salarian Architect • Turian Agent • Turian Havoc Trooper


Ultra Rare

Angara Avenger • Angara Exemplar • Asari Duelist • Batarian Vanguard • Human Kineticist • Krogan Gladiator • Salarian Operator






