






This article is about the class in Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer. For the class in Mass Effect: Andromeda Multiplayer, see Asari Huntress (Mass Effect: Andromeda).



Asari Huntress Infiltrator






Class
Infiltrator


Race
Asari


Rarity
Rare


Availability
Mass Effect 3: Retaliation


Abilities
Biotic DashHeavy Biotic Blast


Asari are the most influential and respected sentient species in the galaxy. They are native to the planet Thessia and were the first species to discover the Citadel. Their long lifespan and history have allowed them to serve as galactic mediators for centuries. While not as physically powerful as other species, their proficiency with biotics makes them dangerous opponents.
Asari are fierce, graceful warriors. They are incredibly powerful natural biotics. The asari excel at hit-and-run tactics to ruthlessly eliminate their opponents from the battlefield.

Contents

1 Powers
2 Melee and movement
3 Player Notes

3.1 General Notes
3.2 Cerberus
3.3 Collectors
3.4 Geth
3.5 Reapers


4 Trivia
5 References


Powers[]





Shield: 500 / Health: 500


Class: Asari Huntress


 Tactical Cloak




 Dark Channel




 Warp




 Fitness











Melee and movement[]





Regular Melee – Punch
Melee Sequence: The Asari Huntress Infiltrator executes a series of up to three punches.
Heavy Melee (Heavy Biotic Blast) – The Asari Huntress Infiltrator unleashes a biotic pulse that damages enemies within a certain radius. Unprotected foot soldiers can be knocked over and away.
Grab (Biotic Punch) – The Asari Huntress Infiltrator drags an enemy over cover and then executes them with a charged biotic punch.





Dodge (Biotic Dash) – The Asari Huntress Infiltrator quickly slides using biotic energy at the expense of barrier strength.
The Asari Huntress Infiltrator can take cover, and can roll from cover to cover.

Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
The Asari Huntress is the only biotic Infiltrator, capable of both weakening armor (with Warp) and detonating Biotic Explosions.
Unlike other Infiltrators, the Huntress' Tactical Cloak does not provide bonus weapon damage; instead, the Huntress' damage bonus only applies to powers and melee attacks. To compensate, the Huntress' damage bonus from cloaked attacks begins at 60%, and can be upgraded to 120%.
For maximum power use, the Asari Huntress benefits from a light loadout. As both offensive powers have a damage-over-time effect, however, they may not always have to be recast constantly and a 200% recharge speed bonus is thus less essential. Additionally, since using a power while cloaked will activate Tactical Cloak's cooldown instead, a near-three second recharge speed can be maintained regardless of weapon weight.
Because cooldown times aren't necessarily a concern, heavy pistols (such as the Arc Pistol, M-11 Suppressor, or M-77 Paladin) or even shotguns and sniper rifles are all viable options for the Huntress, depending on playstyle. With the Acolyte, the Huntress can strip shielded enemies of their defenses as well.
With Tactical Cloak upgraded for Bonus Power, the Asari Huntress can easily set off Biotic Explosions from any range while keeping herself safe.
On the other hand, the Power Damage evolutions make the Huntress' Dark Channel very powerful and able to take down most or all of even a Banshee's barriers and armor singlehandedly.
Additionally, the increased mobility of the asari combined with the low profile from Tactical Cloak makes her very useful in flanking strategies, especially on higher difficulties. An effective maneuver is to employ Dark Channel on hardened enemies as the back of a formation, by using Tactical Cloak to get close and then retreating. This will ensure that by the time the enemy reaches your team, it will have suffered tremendous damage.
Dark Channel and Warp are a lethal combination since both cause damage over time and their effects stack. This is particularly useful when dealing with large armored enemies such as Atlases, or nimble opponents that can hide from line of sight, like Geth Hunters and Phantoms.
Cerberus[]
Guardians, while being annoying, are not a huge threat to the Huntress. Despite the fact that their large shields block Dark Channel, the player can sneak behind them with Tactical Cloak to use Warp or Dark Channel. If engaging them directly, a Warp arced slightly behind the Guardian's shield will cause them to stagger, but this is difficult to reliably line up. As usual, equipping piercing weapons/mods helps to deal with them.
Dark Channel is invaluable against Phantoms. Because it is a "hit-scan" ability, it will affect the target instantly. This means the Phantom will not have time to raise her power-blocking barrier as she would with Warp. If the Slow Evolution (Rank 5) is taken, Dark Channel will significantly decrease the Phantom's movement speed; furthermore, the damage-over-time will disrupt her cloaking ability.
Collectors[]
Because the Collectors have barriers instead of shields, the "Pierce" evolutions of both Warp and Dark Channel come in particularly handy, as they do increased damage to barriers and armor.
Dark Channel is invaluable against the agile Swarms. Since it doesn't need time to travel, missing them is hard.
As usual, care should be taken when dealing with Swarms and Abominations, particularly when either is possessed.
Geth[]
Almost every enemy has shields, and the Huntress's powers are better focused around single enemies. The player should keep their distance at all times.
Since Geth always walk together as a single unit, Dark Channel will spread easily. This sometimes reveals hidden Geth Hunters, since the damage over time will expose them, even with their shields active.
Reapers[]
Using Dark Channel on weaker enemies such as Husks and Swarmers is a fast way to unleash quick and successive Biotic Detonations with Warp.
A properly evolved Dark Channel, used under the effects of a damage boosting Tactical Cloak, is great for seriously damaging or outright killing far away Ravagers before they even come into range, even on higher difficulties. The Dark Channel will also take care of any Swarmers released upon their host's death.
Trivia[]
Although the Asari Huntress according to the description on the Characters screen possesses a barrier, in actuality the character is equipped with shields.
The damage bonus provided by the Huntress' Tactical Cloak was originally intended to apply to weapon damage as well as powers and melee attacks.[1]
References[]

↑ https://web.archive.org/web/20150430043357/forum.bioware.com/topic/430054-december-4th-multiplayer-balance-changes/page-3




Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer and Character Customization


Adepts

Asari • Asari Justicar • Awakened Collector • Batarian Slasher • Drell • Human • Krogan Shaman • N7 Fury • Project Phoenix • Volus


Engineers

Geth • Human • N7 Demolisher • Quarian • Quarian Male • Salarian • Talon Mercenary • Turian Saboteur • Volus • Vorcha Hunter


Infiltrators

Alliance Infiltration Unit • Asari Huntress • Drell Assassin • Geth Hunter • Human • N7 Shadow • Quarian • Quarian Male • Salarian • Turian Ghost


Sentinels

Asari Valkyrie • Batarian Enforcer • Human • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • N7 Paladin • Turian • Volus Mercenary • Vorcha


Soldiers

Batarian Enforcer • Battlefield 3 • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Trooper • Human • Krogan • N7 Destroyer • Quarian Marksman • Turian • Turian Havoc • Vorcha


Vanguards

Asari • Batarian Brawler • Cabal • Drell • Human • Krogan Battlemaster • N7 Slayer • Project Phoenix • Volus Protector




