




Ascendant

 







Faction
Kett


Weapons / Attacks
Electrical Ball LightningRanged Orb Beam Attack


Abilities
Force FieldElectrical Gravity Squeeze


Health
High


Shields
–


Weak Points
Ascendant's OrbHead


The Ascendant is a kett unit. They typically show up as a mini-boss at the end of an infiltration mission, either as a Priority Ops or an optional mission. They rank highly within kett society and are frequently shown in charge of important things. Such leaders are often known by other titles, like the Prefects, The Cardinal, or The Valiant.
Ascendants can also be found on Firebases across the Heleus Cluster,  deployed on the battlefield if initial waves of kett forces fail to neutralize the APEX forces in the area.

Contents

1 Scanner Information
2 Description
3 Capabilities
4 Tactics


Scanner Information[]
Kett Ascendant


DATA:
Classification: Enemy
Origin: Andromeda
ANALYSIS:
The kett's elite battle master who can elevate above the fray to gain a tactical advantace. An Ascendant charges a variety of devastating attacks that we are quantifying and attempting to understand.

Description[]
The Ascendant are the highest caste of kett seen on the battlefield and are considered exceptionally dangerous. APEX reports that they are typically only seen when the kett are conducting high-stakes operations, or when a persistent enemy must be eliminated. Element zero cores throughout its armor allow an Ascendant to levitate off the ground, allowing it to command the attention of subordinate kett and rain devastating fire down upon enemies.
The Ascendant appear to have biological control over electromagnetic force. Cell samples gathered at great risk show electrocyte-like formations. It is likely that an Ascendant uses equipment or implants to amplify and control this ability, allowing it to manipulate EM fields that empower its weaponry. If provoked, the Ascendant can unleash a ball-lightning-like attack which conducts electricity to nearby foes, or yank an opponent helplessly off their feet to deliver a barrage of blows. 


Capabilities[]
Offensive
The Ascendant's conventional attack is a targeted electric shock. Alternatively, they can unleash a ball-lightning-like attack which conducts electricity to nearby enemies. This heavily-damaging attack ignores cover and can stagger characters out of it.
At close range, they will grab a target in a gravity-sphere, then collapse the sphere to crush the target for an insta-kill.

Defensive
Ascendants are accompanied at all times by their Orb. This small device orbits them and projects an energy force field that protects them from all attacks. Ascendants may only be harmed once their orb is destroyed, but they will quickly generate a new orb after a few seconds.

Tactics[]
As they have only a health bar with no shields or armor when their Orbs go down, Ascendants are vulnerable even to biotic powers like Pull, though the effect doesn't last as long as it does on weaker enemies.
Orbs cannot be ragdolled, yanked out, or affected by other physics-related attacks. They'll still be damaged, though they'll continue to orbit the Ascendant until destroyed.
Accurate, rapid fire weapons (such as assault rifles) with consumable ammo types can assist in taking down the orb relatively quickly at a distance, due to damage-over-time while the Ascendant's orb is facing away from the player, as well as being easier to fill the space with predictive fire, scoring multiple hits as the orb returns to facing. These ammo types can also be used to prime the Ascendant for combo detonations, when focusing squadmate attacks to deal greater damage in the short window that the shield is down.
The orb only stays put when the Ascendant prepares to charge its ball lightning attack, in which it's placed in front of the Ascendant facing the target. This is one of the few opportunities to shoot it down while it's immobile (hopefully before the charge attack is let loose), either by the intended target or by untargeted teammates.
The ball lightning attack generally can be dodged by moving sideways. If an Ascendant and its target are both on equal elevation, the attack can also be dodged (barely) if the target jumps straight up then dashes forward as the energy sphere comes closer.
Reflecting their ball lightning attack back at them through Backlash is an effective way of destroying their Orb while ensuring no one else on the team (behind the player performing the skill) takes damage.
Overwhelming damage can kill both an Ascendant and their Orb simultaneously. One of the few things that can do it is the Cobra RPG.
In melee range there is a short, distinctive whine before an Ascendant grabs a target for an insta-kill. Quickly dash out into safety on hearing the audio cue.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




