





Milky Way

Clusters

Systems

Planets

Moons

Asteroids


Space stations

Starships

Missions

Assignments

Locations

Planet Index



Asteroids in Mass Effect can be found in asteroid belts orbiting the various systems.  To spot them, swing the cursor around along the belt, or watch carefully:  they'll flash violet every few seconds. Plot them on the Galaxy Map by moving the cursor over an asteroid belt and pressing "A" (for the PC version) or "Y" (on Xbox 360) when prompted.
Asteroids are sometimes used as weapons, particularly by the krogan and the turians. Dropped from orbit, they cause an impressive amount of damage with minimal effort and cost. The krogan were known for using these tactics during the Krogan Rebellions, rendering at least three turian planets completely uninhabitable. Asteroid drops on 'garden worlds' - planets like Palaven, Thessia or Earth - are strictly illegal under Tier 1 of the Citadel Conventions. However, this does not prevent terrorist groups from doing so (see Bring Down the Sky).

Main article: Mass Effect System Guide
Contents

1 Notable Asteroids

1.1 Assignment Locations
1.2 Asteroid Cluster
1.3 Silicaceous Asteroids
1.4 Carbonaceous Asteroids
1.5 Metallic Asteroids
1.6 Rocky Asteroids
1.7 Unknown Type




Notable Asteroids[]
Assignment Locations[]

Asteroid X57
Project Base
Asteroid Cluster[]
Sparta — Prothean Data Disc
Silicaceous Asteroids[]
A small group of siliceous asteroids, loosely bound together by gravity, can be found in the Sparta system of the Artemis Tau cluster. The cluster has a radius of 12km, and is located in the asteroid field between the planets Tremanre and Edolus.
Mylasi
Carbonaceous Asteroids[]
Acheron — Turian Insignia
Beyalt
Farlas
Israfil
Kakabel
Knossos — League of One Medallion
Paeto
Phoenix — Prothean Data Disc
Tereshkova — League of One Medallion
These carbon-rich asteroids make up the majority of asteroids in the Sol system.

Metallic Asteroids[]
Alcyoneus
Century — Heavy Metal
Dis — Light Metal
Inakhos
Knossos — Heavy Metal
Macedon — Light Metal
Matano — Heavy Metal
Vostok — Heavy Metal
Teukria
Tyrix
Mahavid
Metallic asteroids derive from the cores of planets and dwarf planets which have differentiated, and then been destroyed.

Rocky Asteroids[]
Farinata — Light Metal
Grissom — Rare Element
Herschel — Heavy Metal
Lucen
Matano — Prothean Data Disc
Uriyah
Virits
Unknown Type[]
Pheiros



