




Awakened Collector Adept






Class
Adept


Race
Collector


Rarity
Ultra-Rare


Availability
Mass Effect 3: Reckoning


Abilities
Forewing LeapAscension ModeVengeful Strike


When the Reaper-killer known as Leviathan fought the Collectors, it severed their connection to Harbinger with a thrall device. Most Collector forces died as a result, but a few survived. Now, these rare individuals fight for the memory of their people, a proud race broken by the Reapers.
Protheans appointed avatars to embody and model a single virtue for their society. The Awakened Collectors' virtue is vengeance.

Contents

1 Powers
2 Melee and movement
3 Player Notes

3.1 General Notes
3.2 Cerberus
3.3 Collectors
3.4 Geth
3.5 Reapers




Powers[]





Barrier: 750 / Health: 500


Class: Vengeful Ancient


 Dark Sphere




 Seeker Swarm




 Dark Channel




 Ancient Warrior











Melee and movement[]





Regular Melee (Vengeful Strike) – The Awakened Collector Adept charges a biotic attack for a brief period of time and strikes out in a small area in front of it, knocking unprotected enemies down.
Heavy Melee (Ascension Mode) – The Awakened Collector Adept's heavy melee increases damage output and recharge speed at the cost of increasing damage taken, for 45 seconds. Activating and prematurely deactivating Ascension Mode staggers and slightly damages nearby enemies, knocking down unprotected foot soldiers.
Grab (Semi-Circular Omni-Blade Stab) – The Awakened Collector Adept drags an enemy over cover and then executes them by stabbing with a semi-circular omni-blade.





Dodge (Forewing Leap) – The Awakened Collector Adept flies a short distance using wings.
The Awakened Collector Adept can take cover, and can roll from cover to cover.

Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
This is a character capable of very potent biotic damage, being able to prime multiple Biotic Explosions with Dark Sphere and Dark Channel and single-handedly detonate them in quick succession using Seeker Swarms.
A potent biotic attack pattern manipulating the cooldown mechanics is to first send out a Dark Sphere, then Dark Channel (which has a short cooldown), then detonate numerous enemies with Seeker Swarms (make sure you have plenty summoned before initiating the Dark Sphere) and finally, if desired, detonate Dark Sphere.
For this tactic, it is useful to invest points in Seeker Swarm because Dark Channel and Dark Sphere cannot detonate each other.
Dark Sphere can still be detonated manually (triggering the cooldown) even if it has already been used for Biotic Explosions. The detonation may hit enemies through cover.
Alternatively, using Seeker Swarms for the protection bonus and not detonating Dark Sphere allows for a heavier loadout supported by biotic damage-over-time.
The Collector suffers from lengthy power cooldowns and activation animations, which can prove untimely in the middle of a battle. Be aware of how many Seeker Swarms you have with you at all times so that the activation animation does not take you by surprise.
If timed correctly, it is possible to cancel the "summoning" animation of the Seeker Swarm by quickly using a Dark Channel. This has the added bonus of activating the significantly shorter cooldown of Dark Channel.
The Collector can gain a whopping +65% boost to power damage from its passive class power Vengeful Ancient. When equipment and gear are taken into account, the Collector Adept can easily have a more than 100% boost to power damage—and Dark Sphere and Dark Channel both are very high-damage effects by default.
As an alternative to normal power-heavy Adepts, with Ascension Mode and the Collector/Prothean Weapon Damage bonuses of Vengeful Ancient, an Awakened Collector specced for weapon damage is one of the best Particle Rifle users in the game.
Ascension Mode's fairly limited 45 second duration coupled with its long activation animation can make it a chore to sustain, so use it wisely.
Forewing Leap functions similar to the Propulsion Packs of the Turian Ghost Infiltrator, Turian Havoc Soldier, and Turian Saboteur Engineer. While it suffers from a significant post-use delay, its initial movement is extremely quick, making it one of the most reactive dodges in the game.
Cerberus[]
Cerberus troops are highly mobile and will dodge the slow-moving Dark Sphere very often. Using choke points and evolving Dark Sphere to have an increased radius can mitigate these problems.
Dark Sphere can hit Guardians through their shields.
Phantoms will sometimes use their spherical barrier to prevent damage, but since Dark Sphere can be a controlled explosion, one can simply wait until the barrier is down, then detonate.
Collectors[]
Dark Sphere combined with Dark Channel and Seeker Swarms can be used to safely take down dangerous groups of Abominations and Seeker Swarms from afar.
This is also effective against hardened targets, as most enemies have barriers and/or armor, both of which are vulnerable to biotics.
The significant force applied by your light melee will push enemies far away, making it the ideal tool for dealing with nearby Abominations, especially Possessed Abominations.
Geth[]
Dark Sphere can reveal cloaked Geth Hunters and quickly dispose of Geth Primes' Combat Drones and Geth Turrets.
Reapers[]
Brutes, Cannibals and Ravagers move slowly enough for Seeker Swarm to take full effect. This also allows enough time for Dark Sphere to properly prime.


Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer and Character Customization


Adepts

Asari • Asari Justicar • Awakened Collector • Batarian Slasher • Drell • Human • Krogan Shaman • N7 Fury • Project Phoenix • Volus


Engineers

Geth • Human • N7 Demolisher • Quarian • Quarian Male • Salarian • Talon Mercenary • Turian Saboteur • Volus • Vorcha Hunter


Infiltrators

Alliance Infiltration Unit • Asari Huntress • Drell Assassin • Geth Hunter • Human • N7 Shadow • Quarian • Quarian Male • Salarian • Turian Ghost


Sentinels

Asari Valkyrie • Batarian Enforcer • Human • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • N7 Paladin • Turian • Volus Mercenary • Vorcha


Soldiers

Batarian Enforcer • Battlefield 3 • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Trooper • Human • Krogan • N7 Destroyer • Quarian Marksman • Turian • Turian Havoc • Vorcha


Vanguards

Asari • Batarian Brawler • Cabal • Drell • Human • Krogan Battlemaster • N7 Slayer • Project Phoenix • Volus Protector




