


In the Mass Effect universe, various awards are given to recognize the achievements and contributions of individuals or groups in fields such as military service, science, and art and culture.

Contents

1 Military
2 Science
3 Art and culture









“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.









“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.









“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Military[]


Name

Description

Known Recipients


Galactic Unit Citation

The highest honor that can be awarded to a military unit, it recognizes gallantry above and beyond that of the Palladium Star.

24th Fighter Group of the Citadel Fleet


Nova Cluster

An award bestowed by the Turian Hierarchy.

Ashley Williams (if she did not survive Virmire)


Palladium Star

An award recognizing gallantry in battle.

All Citadel Fleet and Fifth Fleet units who fought in the Battle of the Citadel


Silver Dagger

An award bestowed by the Salarian Union.

Ashley Williams (if she did not survive Virmire)


Star of Sur'Kesh

An award bestowed by the Salarian Union.

Captain Kirrahe (if he survived Virmire)


Star of Terra

An award bestowed by the Systems Alliance, it recognizes courageous and distinguished service that is above and beyond the call of duty. Recipients of this medal are regarded as heroes of humanity.

Commander Shepard (with War Hero background)


Science[]


Name

Description

Known Recipients


Hitara Prize for Biology

A galactic-level award recognizing scientific excellence in the field of biology.

An Earth science team


Art and culture[]


Name

Description

Known Recipients


Best Choreography

An award bestowed by the Galactic Video Music Awards.

Skinsuit for "Mix It"


Best New Artist

An award bestowed by the Galactic Video Music Awards.

Domino Masque


Video of the Year

An award bestowed by the Galactic Video Music Awards.

Varrencage for "Let It Up, Let It Out"





