




Balor

Milky Way / Caleston Rift







System View


Stellar Mass
0.4 Sol Masses


Stellar Class
M V


Luminosity
N/A


Planets
4


Moons
1


Asteroid Belts
1


Asteroids
0


Objects
2



Prerequisite: Collector Ship (mission) or Project Firewalker: Rosalie Lost (Mass Effect 2)

Prerequisite: Priority: Rannoch  or Citadel: Leviathan I (Mass Effect 3)


Balor is a gateway system. Its star is a red dwarf and its solar output is normally weak; however, during solar flares, its luminosity can double or triple.
The system's worlds are rich in resources. Mining corporations have only begun to exploit this; some regions are still unexplored and some are beyond economically feasible extraction methods.

Contents

1 Fuel depot
2 Mass relay
3 Bres
4 Caleston
5 Cernunnos
6 Elatha
7 Fomor Belt
8 Partholon
9 Trivia


Fuel depot[]
Main article: Fuel depot
Mass relay[]
Main article: Mass relay
Bres[]
Bres is the second planet orbiting the star Balor.

Main article: Bres
Caleston[]
Caleston is a moon orbiting the planet Cernunnos.

Main article: Caleston
Cernunnos[]
Cernunnos is the first planet orbiting the star Balor.

Main article: Cernunnos
Elatha[]
Elatha is the third planet orbiting the star Balor.

Main article: Elatha
Fomor Belt[]
An asteroid belt between the orbits of Cernunnos and Elatha.

Partholon[]
Partholon is the fourth planet orbiting the star Balor.

Main article: Partholon
Trivia[]
Balor may be named after a king of the Fomorians in Irish mythology, and several of the system's planets are also named after figures from the Irish Mythological Cycle.
Balor fits the description of a flare star, a class of red dwarf stars that also includes the Sol's nearest two stellar neighbors, Proxima Centauri and Barnard's Star.
Caleston Rift is automatically available after Priority: Rannoch. If Mass Effect 3: Leviathan is installed, Balor can be accessed much earlier, but travel to Aysur is still restricted in this case. Scanning Caleston before even stopping by Dr. Bryson's Lab will break story immersion as the resulting information is something introduced only upon formally starting the Leviathan mission chain.



