






This article is about one of three named armor talents in Mass Effect. For armor generally, see Armor.

Basic Armor is a combat-oriented talent available to Adepts and the Quarian Machinist and unlockable by Engineers. It increases effectiveness of Light Armor. Along with the other armor talents Tactical Armor and Combat Armor, Basic Armor unlocks Shield Boost. 
All of the armor talents boost the owner's resistance to health damage, especially useful against enemy attacks that aren't stopped by shields, such as melee hits. Hardening improves the owner's resistance to enemy tech attacks and abilities, reducing both their damage and duration.

Talent Ranks[]
Level 1: Increases damage reduction and hardening by 5%.
Level 2: Increases damage reduction and hardening by 8%.
Level 3: Shield Boost: Recharges 30% of your shield per second. Duration: 2s. Recharge Time: 45s. Accuracy Cost: 30%.
Level 4: Increases damage reduction and hardening by 10%.
Level 5: Increases damage reduction and hardening by 12%. Unlocks Pistols (Adept), First Aid (Quarian Machinist).
Level 6: Increases damage reduction and hardening by 14%.
Level 7: Increases damage reduction and hardening by 16%.
Level 8: Advanced Shield Boost: Recharges 40% of your shield per second. Duration: 2s. Recharge Time: 45s. Accuracy Cost: 30%.
Level 9: Increases damage reduction and hardening by 18%.
Level 10: Increases damage reduction and hardening by 19%.
Level 11: Increases damage reduction and hardening by 20%.
Level 12: Master Shield Boost: Recharges 50% of your shield per second. Duration: 2s. Recharge Time: 45s. Accuracy Cost: 30%.
Classes[]
These classes have access to the Basic Armor talent:

Adept
Engineer Unlockable
Quarian Machinist


Mass Effect Talents


Biotic

Barrier • Lift • Singularity • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Assault Rifles • Pistols • Shotguns • Sniper Rifles • Assault Training • Fitness • Basic Armor • Combat Armor • Tactical Armor


Tech

Damping • Decryption • Electronics • First Aid • Hacking • Medicine


Class

Adept • Asari Scientist • Engineer • Infiltrator • Krogan Battlemaster • Quarian Machinist • Sentinel • Soldier • Turian Agent • Vanguard


Player only

Charm • Intimidate • Spectre Training




