




Batarian Vanguard






Race
Batarian


Rarity
Ultra Rare


Availability
Unlockable


Batarian Vanguard who uses biotics to close in on his opponents and pummel them with devastating melee attacks.
The Vanguard is one of two batarians given asylum on the salarian ark in exchange for helping the Alliance capture their former boss, who led a notorious batarian pirate gang that attacked ships uncomfortably close to the Citadel.
The two batarians were granted passage on the salarian ark in exchange for information and an agreement to provide security for future salarian settlements in Andromeda.
The Batarian Vanguard joins the Nexus militia forces during the along for the ride APEX missions in Heleus Cluster.

Skills and stats[]





 Health: 500     Shields: 175


Powers

Charge


Annihilation


Flak Cannon


Passives

Weapon Training


Combat Fitness


Veteran Bonus


Melee

Batarian Gauntlet


Bonus Stat

Max Shields


Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
Another N7 level character focused around a melee weapon, the Batarian Vanguard lives and dies on the ability to use his Batarian Gauntlet to detonate targets primed by his Annihilation field. Charge helps you get into melee range quickly, and should almost always be followed up with a melee attack instead of Flak Cannon or gunfire.
A shotgun with a Shotgun Melee Mod attachment can help crack hard targets. The Reegar Carbine is an especially good choice, being both light and suited to close quarters combat. The Talon is a good choice in a Pistol Skirmish round. Siphon weapons are also ideal if you have access to them to keep your Batarian at full health.
It may be a good idea to upgrade your Barrier to replenish on melee kills and Annihilation to restore shields when enemies die nearby. Combined with the shield boost from Charge, the Batarian Vanguard should be pretty survivable while mixing it up in melee.
The Batarian Gauntlet detonates combos with 70 % of their normal strength.
Kett[]
As with all characters with Charge, be careful about charging enemies with insta-kill melee moves like the Fiend or Ascendant. Once an Ascendant's shields are down, you can safely charge and melee for a devastating combo that can often finish it off.
Outlaw[]

Remnant[]





Mass Effect: Andromeda Multiplayer and APEX HQ







Common

Human Adept • Human Engineer • Human Infiltrator • Human Sentinel • Human Soldier • Human Vanguard


Uncommon

Asari Adept • Asari Sentinel • Krogan Engineer • Krogan Vanguard • Salarian Infiltrator • Turian Soldier


Rare

Angara Insurgent • Asari Huntress • Batarian Scrapper • Human Artificer • Human Commando • Human Guardian • Human Juggernaut • Krogan Mercenary • Salarian Architect • Turian Agent • Turian Havoc Trooper


Ultra Rare

Angara Avenger • Angara Exemplar • Asari Duelist • Batarian Vanguard • Human Kineticist • Krogan Gladiator • Salarian Operator






