




Batarian Enforcer Sentinel






Class
Sentinel


Race
Batarian


Rarity
Rare


Availability
Mass Effect 3: Resurgence Pack


Abilities
Enforcement GauntletsToughness/MeleeDecreased Mobility


Little is known about the batarian homeworld of Khar'shan or its inhabitants. As a result, the race is judged by those whom the Hegemony allows to travel beyond its borders: organized crime enforcers, pirate boarding parties, slaver gangs, and gladiatorial combatants.
Batarians are large brawlers that use nets and spiked weapons to capture targets... or to bleed them dry on the battlefield. If an opponent gets too close, a batarian enforcer bludgeons them with spiked armor and enforcement gauntlets.

Contents

1 Powers
2 Melee and movement
3 Player Notes

3.1 General Notes
3.2 Cerberus
3.3 Collectors
3.4 Geth
3.5 Reapers




Powers[]





Shield: 750 / Health: 750


Class: Batarian Enforcer


 Blade Armor




 Shockwave




 Submission Net




 Fitness











Melee and movement[]





Regular Melee – Punch
Melee Sequence: The Batarian Enforcer Sentinel executes a series of two one-handed and a final two-handed blow.
Heavy Melee (Enforcement Gauntlets) – The Batarian Enforcer Sentinel winds up a powerful punch with an omni-tool gauntlet, hitting up to one target. An unprotected foot soldier will be sent flying, and its head is destroyed if the blow is fatal.
Grab (Enforcement Punch) – The Batarian Enforcer Sentinel drags an enemy over cover and then executes them by punching with an enforcement gauntlet.





Dodge – The Batarian Enforcer Sentinel lacks a dodge maneuver.
The Batarian Enforcer Sentinel can take cover, but cannot roll from cover to cover.

Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
Shockwave arguably loses some use on higher difficulties compared to Submission Net and Blade Armor. While it can affect multiple enemies and set up or detonate biotic combos, Submission Net deals high damage over time to any target while freezing them in place (if unarmoured), exposing them to easy aiming while being unable to fight back.
Submission Net followed by Shockwave can result in a Tech Burst.
If you want to be a team player, Shockwave suddenly becomes a significantly useful power, as since an update it now has the largest Biotic Combo damage bonus evolution with the Rank 5 Detonate. However, this locks you to a 16m reach for use, although that is still fairly long, being roughly the distance between the short cover in the far building of Firebase: White, and the wall of the small room leading to the stairs and the ammo crate. With Lifting Shockwave, you can even sometimes set up a biotic combo for allies. Considering the range requirement, this becomes highly useful when used in combination with the Asari Justicar Adept's Warp Biotic Bubble with added Radius and Damage Taken and Reave, due to Reave detonating lifted enemies. Warp Bubble sets Shockwave up for a close-range explosion, which can lift unprotected targets, which in turn sets up Reave.
Submission Net has its advantages and disadvantages when compared to its Biotic Counterpart, Stasis, but most notably, it appears to have drastically better effectiveness with repeated use, rather than becoming outright ineffective after the first 1-3 uses on a single enemy like Stasis. That being said, it also deals damage which is not to be underestimated, and multiple uses only increases that. Lastly, the AoE Rank 6 evolution can stun enemies in a radius.
Combine Submission Net with a gun like the Graal Spike Thrower or the Kishock Harpoon Gun, and you can have a highly versatile and effective character. Both guns shoot through the shield gate, both are decently accurate even at long distances, and all effectiveness lost in close-quarters combat (CQC) is made up for by Submission Net in emergencies. Additionally, Submission Net can compensate for the travel time of the afore-mentioned weapons' projectiles at long range. See those weapons' pages for more information on their advantages/disadvantages.
Batarian heavy melee has one of the highest damage reduction bonuses of any heavy melee while in use. In clutch situations, starting a heavy melee into the air might be able to save you from incoming damage.
Batarians are unable to evade, making them more vulnerable to instant-kill moves.
Although batarians are quicker than krogan classes, they are less durable; thus, staggering attacks such as a Geth Prime's pulse cannon can lock them down to lethal effect.
Cerberus[]
Phantoms are very lethal against batarians due to the inability of batarians to dodge. Whilst Submission Net can stop Phantoms cold, if they activate a barrier from their gauntlet, the net will do nothing, and leave you vulnerable to a counter-attack. Consequently, if you wish to trap a phantom, you can target the ground and get them to run into it, resulting in a perfect trap. Another tactic is to start a heavy melée with Blade Armor engaged. The Phantom will then use its basic melée. While this seems counterintuitive, the Phantom will then stagger due to the armor's Damage Returned bonus, allowing for essentially an instant kill (or very close to it) when the melée finally goes off.
Shockwave can be spammed to send Troopers flying around the map, making them unable to ever fire at you whilst damaging them at the same time. Send them over the edges of the map for instant kills.
You can fire a Submission Net at the ground and lead a Guardian into it. It will have the same effectiveness as Stasis Bubble'ing Guardians, or Stasis'ing a Guardian from behind. They will be frozen in place, unable to move or dodge, unable to shoot back, and they will drop their shield, opening them to fire from all sides permanently.
Collectors[]
Submission net will be of little direct use, but indirectly it will deal a huge amount of damage to enemies around the trapped foe. The only enemies it can adequately trap, are Abominations, Captains, and Troopers.
Shockwave can detonate combos, albeit only on smaller foes, and the only smaller foes are the mentioned ones above. The only other way to detonate combos is with the aid of somebody who has an Area of Effect DoT biotic like Reave, or Annihilation Field. When you do detonate combos though, they will be frighteningly deadly.
Blade Armor helps partially to deal with Praetorians, but is most useful against the Collector infantry: they always strike and deal damage with their melee blades twice, but Blade Armor will cause the enemy to stagger back after dealing their first blow, thus preventing them from dealing the full damage of both strikes. This allows a batarian a good close quarters advantage against the Collectors over other races.
Geth[]
Submission Net really comes into play here - if you can use it effectively. Consider sticking to cover and using the net on Hunters - this will prevent them from cloaking again if you deal enough damage.
Submission Net's electrical nature, and Rank 6 AoE evolution can be highly helpful in crowd control purposes. Target an enemy in the center of a horde, and watch as every other enemy gets consistently electrocuted and stunned, or brought to their knees every 1.5 seconds.
Shockwave is  also useful here since, if your allies use a shield draining power such as Energy Drain or Overload, you can use it to deal significant damage to enemies and send them flying. This can be used to push enemies away from the player, allowing the player to escape.
Reapers[]
The Net is much less useful here since only the smaller enemies can be incapacitated by it. You may wish to use just use your guns against the Reapers, especially against Brutes, Ravagers, and Banshees.
With the Rank 5 Damage & Slow evolution, however, it can find use in stopping 3 of the 6 Reaper enemy types, and slowing the rest, which have base Armor.
It can also still allow Tech Bursts to be generated on armored targets.


Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer and Character Customization


Adepts

Asari • Asari Justicar • Awakened Collector • Batarian Slasher • Drell • Human • Krogan Shaman • N7 Fury • Project Phoenix • Volus


Engineers

Geth • Human • N7 Demolisher • Quarian • Quarian Male • Salarian • Talon Mercenary • Turian Saboteur • Volus • Vorcha Hunter


Infiltrators

Alliance Infiltration Unit • Asari Huntress • Drell Assassin • Geth Hunter • Human • N7 Shadow • Quarian • Quarian Male • Salarian • Turian Ghost


Sentinels

Asari Valkyrie • Batarian Enforcer • Human • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • N7 Paladin • Turian • Volus Mercenary • Vorcha


Soldiers

Batarian Enforcer • Battlefield 3 • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Trooper • Human • Krogan • N7 Destroyer • Quarian Marksman • Turian • Turian Havoc • Vorcha


Vanguards

Asari • Batarian Brawler • Cabal • Drell • Human • Krogan Battlemaster • N7 Slayer • Project Phoenix • Volus Protector




