




Batarian Scrapper






Race
Batarian


Rarity
Rare


Availability
Unlockable



Brawler tank who locks down enemies and devastates them at melee range.
The Scrapper is one of two batarians who provided evidence against the leader of their former pirate gang. When Alliance protection services failed, the batarians negotiated an asylum deal with the Initiative.
The salarians granted the batarians cryo pods on Ark Paarchero to gain potential security assets. Happy to abandon pirate life, the Scrapper is starting to enjoy fighting for a greater purpose.
The Batarian Scrapper joins the Nexus militia forces during The Call From Inside APEX missions.

Skills and stats[]





 Health: 550     Shields: 300


Powers

Concussive Shot


Snap Freeze


Flak Cannon


Passives

Munitions Training


Combat Fitness


Veteran Bonus


Melee

Batarian Gauntlet


Bonus Stat

Max Shields


Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
Like the Human Soldier, using Concussive Shot's Rank 4 Repeat Concussion and focusing on Flak Cannon while ignoring Snap Freeze will allow you to ignore weight restrictions while choosing weapons.
On the other hand, the Scrapper can focus on Snap Freeze and use Concussive Shot and the Batarian Gauntlet melee attack to detonate your frozen targets. However, both the Asari Adept and Batarian Vanguard are stronger combo detonating characters, and the Human Juggernaut has a better detonating power combined with Snap Freeze.
The Batarian Gauntlet detonates combos with 70 % of their normal strength.
Kett[]

Outlaw[]

Remnant[]





Mass Effect: Andromeda Multiplayer and APEX HQ







Common

Human Adept • Human Engineer • Human Infiltrator • Human Sentinel • Human Soldier • Human Vanguard


Uncommon

Asari Adept • Asari Sentinel • Krogan Engineer • Krogan Vanguard • Salarian Infiltrator • Turian Soldier


Rare

Angara Insurgent • Asari Huntress • Batarian Scrapper • Human Artificer • Human Commando • Human Guardian • Human Juggernaut • Krogan Mercenary • Salarian Architect • Turian Agent • Turian Havoc Trooper


Ultra Rare

Angara Avenger • Angara Exemplar • Asari Duelist • Batarian Vanguard • Human Kineticist • Krogan Gladiator • Salarian Operator






