


Upon their arrival, Sloane Kelly and the Outcasts pushed back the kett from Kadara Port, but there are rumors that a band of stragglers are still causing trouble in the badlands. Kaetus, Sloane's second, has asked you to investigate.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Look for signs of kett on Kadara
2.2 Speak to the survivor
2.3 Scan for kett tracks
2.4 Track the kett to their hideout
2.5 Defeat the kett


3 Rewards
4 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Hunting the Archon

This mission starts after speaking with Kaetus in in the Outcast Headquarters throne room.

Walkthrough[]
Look for signs of kett on Kadara[]
Go to the navpoint  in Sulfur Springs and there is a burning shuttle wreck and an injured survivor. It's hard to miss, as you can see the top of a Remnant monolith to the southeast once you're at the site.

The shuttle wreck can be scanned for +10 .
Speak to the survivor[]
The survivor is a mortally-wounded angaran Trader who says that they were taken by surprise. The kett headed up in the hills. Pathfinder Ryder contacts Kaetus, who says he'll take a shuttle and come there.

Scan for kett tracks[]
You will have to scan for the kett tracks at multiple locations to discover the navpoint leading to a cave to the southwest in the Draullir region. There are three sets of tracks, and all of them are in the vehicle trails that inevitably lead to their lair so you won't have to look far.

Track the kett to their hideout[]
At the entrance to the cave, Ryder sends the navpoint to Kaetus.
When entering the hideout, Sloane shows up together with Kaetus. Sloane is prideful enough to deal with the kett problem herself, though she belittles Ryder's efforts tracking them down - respond how you will to that. Kaetus intervenes as he doesn't like that Sloane is there, because when she is not in Kadara Port, it's an opportunity for the Collective to take over. A sound in the cave interrupts the argument and alerts the intruders that the kett are now aware of their presence, so prepare to fight.

Defeat the kett[]
The enemy composition always has Chosen and Anointed, though on occasion some Destined, Wraiths, or even a Fiend might spawn. 
The kett have high ground advantage initially, though you can seek refuge in the numerous boxes lying around.
Sloane and Kaetus aid the fight as unkillable and uncommandable NPCs, though they can flinch at grenade explosions or targeted fire. They deal small amounts of damage: it's possible to slay all kett without you having to fire a shot be it by biotics or guns, though that may take a long time. In practical terms they can be useful to your team as distractions while you dish out the actual hurt.
Once the last enemy is down, the mission completes. Sloane can be spoken to, and may move next to the entrance. She wants to dispose of the bodies to preserve the narrative that all kett died during her initial seizure of Kadara Port.
There are several lootable containers and mineral nodes located throughout the cave.

Rewards[]
+530 XP
+73 AVP 
+5% Kadara viability
Trivia[]
According to the burning shuttle's scan it's angaran-made, though it uses the Initiative model.



