




Klencory

Region
Milky Way / Kepler Verge / Newton





Planet View


Orbital Distance
7.5 AU


Orbital Period
20.6 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.994


Radius
7,677 km


Day Length
18.3 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
1.01 atm


Surface Temp
−109 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.82 g


Mass
1.179 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Kepler Verge / Newton System /  Second planet

Prerequisite: Priority: Thessia (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description

1.1 Mass Effect
1.2 Mass Effect 3


2 Survey Text
3 Assignments


Description[]
Mass Effect[]
Klencory is a rock and ice planet with an atmosphere composed of chlorine and argon. The frozen surface is mainly composed of potassium with deposits of Iron.
Klencory is famously claimed by the eccentric volus billionaire Kumun Shol. He claims that a vision of a higher being told him to seek on Klencory the "lost crypts of beings of light". These entities were supposedly created at the dawn of time to protect organic life from synthetic "machine devils."
Shol has been excavating on Klencory's toxic surface for two decades, at great expense. No government has valued the world enough to evict his small army of mercenaries.

Mass Effect 3[]
Klencory is a rock and ice planet with an atmosphere composed of chlorine and argon. The frozen surface is mainly composed of potassium with deposits of iron.
Klencory is famously claimed by the eccentric volus billionaire Kumun Shol. His once-ridiculed visions of "beings of light" protecting organic life from synthetic "machine devils" don't seem quite so far-fetched now. His private army of mercenaries are well-established on the planet, waiting for husks to come knocking on their door. In all likelihood, they will be obliterated by the molten metal of a Reaper orbital bombardment, on its way to somewhere important.

Survey Text[]

“Scans of the planet Klencory revealed the cockpit of a volus trading vessel. There are no signs of the rest of the ship, but the salvage team discovered one of Matriarch Dilinaga's writings in the ship's systems.”


Assignments[]
Collection: UNC: Asari Writings: Matriarch's Writings ×1



