









Bel Anoleis
Port Hanshan Administrator

Race
Salarian


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect


Administrator Bel Anoleis (full name Rannadril Ghan Swa Fulsoom Karaten Narr Eadi Bel Anoleis) is the salarian in charge of Noveria's Port Hanshan. He represents the executive board; his position affords him oversight of the local corporations' rents and day-to-day business. 







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
Gianna Parasini, Anoleis' secretary, directs Commander Shepard to the administrator as the person to request a pass to leave Port Hanshan from, in order to pursue the investigation of Matriarch Benezia's presence on the planet.
Unfortunately, Anoleis is an officious bureaucrat who refuses to fully cooperate, despite Shepard's Spectre status. Anoleis is more interested in trying to protect investor interests than assisting Shepard's investigation, and stonewalls any questions about Matriarch Benezia. He refuses to let the team go on their way, citing the inclement weather and the status of Peak 15 as a private facility.


If Shepard receives word of a smuggling operation in Port Hanshan and directly supplies the proof to Anoleis, he rewards the Commander with a pass to leave the port and stern admonishments against causing trouble. If other options are pursued, incriminating details regarding the administrator's dealings may be brought to light.
If Shepard is unsuccessful in obtaining the pass, Parasini tips the Commander to speak to a turian, Lorik Qui'in, who is relaxing in the hotel bar. According to Qui'in, Anoleis has recently gained direct control of lab rents, taking bribes and earning the ire of the local companies. Anoleis is attempting to conceal his actions by accusing Qui'in of corruption, and has paid certain members of Hanshan's Elanus Risk Control security forces under-the-table to ransack Qui'in's offices at Synthetic Insights, where the turian is storing the evidence of Anoleis' corruption on his personal computer.
Shepard can assist Qui'in in getting the evidence on Anoleis, which can be handed over to three different people and influences Anoleis' fate to varying degrees.
If the evidence is simply handed over to Qui'in, Anoleis dismisses Shepard offhand when the Commander comes by his office, citing "issues" he must deal with immediately. Eventually he is pressured by the Board to resign, but not before he deals with the public messaging of the Peak 15 incident aftermath.


If the evidence is reported to Anoleis, he dismisses it as mere fabrication. Anoleis may offer to take the evidence from Shepard's hands, claiming it would help his investigation into Qui'in's "corruption". In return, he promises to arrange access to Benezia along with a hefty credit payout accorded to "private investigators". Alternately, Shepard may keep the evidence and either blackmail Anoleis into providing a garage pass or accept one from him as a goodwill gesture toward the Citadel.
If Qui'in is convinced to testify against Anoleis, which helps Parasini in her investigation as an undercover agent of Noveria Internal Affairs and exposing Anoleis' corruption in the process, Anoleis indignantly protests his situation while being hauled away by Parasini. Prior to getting caught, Anoleis proved himself to be a competent crook, leaving no records of his deeds other than Qui'in's testimony and files. Parasini takes the evidence for safekeeping.
If Shepard exposes Parasini as an internal affairs agent, Anoleis asks the Commander to wait outside his office while he summons her, resulting in them killing each other in a brief shootout. When Shepard takes the pass from Anoleis' body, it prompts a response from authorities led by Maeko Matsuo. A female human crime scene investigator wearing an orange and brown dress will remain in the room after Matsuo leaves.
If Anoleis is still administrator after the death of Matriarch Benezia, when Shepard next talks to him he announces contact with Peak 15 has been restored. It is evident to him that the facility lost control of some experiment, and Saren Arterius will blame Shepard for anything that happened there, not him. However, off the record he is curious as to what actually happened at Peak 15, and is willing to bribe Shepard with up to 400 credits for the info.
If Shepard mentions the rachni's involvement without any obfuscation, Anoleis initially disbelieves the claim, then changes his tune once he realizes the potential profits the implications could bring. If he's merely told "biological weapons" were to blame, he muses a hazmat team could go in and salvage some genetic material. If the Commander refuses to tell him anything, Anoleis is unfazed since he could get one of the other survivors to talk. Whichever the case, he ends the conversation shortly afterward: they have no further business to discuss, and he recommends flying away from Noveria to "damage" someone else's world.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
If Gianna Parasini survived Shepard's dealings on Noveria, she is found on Illium pursuing another internal affairs case. If the Commander helped her arrest Anoleis, she reveals in conversation that the former administrator is now serving time in a white-collar prison. If not, then she reveals he was fired over an incident with an asari tax inspector.

Trivia[]
No credits are actually awarded if the option to accept a bribe from Anoleis in return for Peak 15 intel is taken.



