









Beniska
Lookout

Race
Angara


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Beniska is a member of the Resistance on Voeld. She shares lookout duties with Tseek on the Angaran Resistance Base. Their post overlooks the valley and has a view of the planet's Kett Base, and since they were stationed there for a long time they're considered experts on local activities.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




It appears that she has a good relationship with Tseek, regularly bantering to break the tedium. She often receives care packages from Aya while Tseek doesn't, which means the latter guilts her into sharing snacks. She was caught napping at their post one time, but she insists she was merely "blinking" for two minutes. 
Beniska's reaction to meeting Pathfinder Ryder for the first time depends on the latter's reputation. She and her partner are startled because the Pathfinder came up on their backs, initially drawing weapons then holstering them as the situation becomes clear. She doesn't want to speak to the alien if they're just starting to prove their intentions, even referring to Ryder as "it". If Jaal Ama Darav is with the squad, he reminds her the Pathfinder has a name. Beniska thinks Jaal named the alien, and is perplexed how he can even tell the outsiders apart.
On the other hand, if Ryder already helped the angara on Havarl, Beniska turns giddy with awe since she never expected aid from aliens, having known only death and slavery from the kett. If the Moshae has been rescued, Beniska is even more impressed with Ryder punching the kett "right in the exaltations". Tseek is embarrassed for both of them, though if Ryder finds Beniska's behavior charming she declares they're already building bonds.
Whichever Beniska's reaction, Tseek takes over the majority of speaking duties for Ryder's questions, occasionally interjecting her opinions. If asked about the kett presence, she shares she once came face to face with the Prefect, calling her the "meanest, motherless vesaan" she ever saw.




