




Benning

Region
Milky Way / Arcturus Stream / Euler





Planet View


Orbital Distance
1.1 AU


Orbital Period
0.9 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
1.643


Radius
9,362 km


Atm. Pressure
1.13 atm


Surface Temp
63 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.14 g


Mass
2.438 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Arcturus Stream / Euler System /  Second planet


Colony

Species
Human


Capital
Joughin


Colony Founded
2153


Population
2.25 million(Pop. estimate is pre-invasion)



Prerequisite: Attican Traverse: Krogan Team or Tuchanka: Turian Platoon (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Missions
4 Trivia


Description[]
Benning, the nearest garden world to Arcturus Station, is the primary source of its food supply and an important staging area for starship maintenance and repair. Occupying the planet would be key in any attempt to retake the system's relay.
Scattered intelligence indicates that during the battles of Arcturus and Earth, the Reapers sent a small force to Benning to destroy its comm buoys, spaceports, and starships. With the population immobilized and communications cut, the main force concentrated on the larger prize, knowing they could return before repairs could be made or help could arrive.
Heat sources in Benning's space indicate a non-Reaper presence here.

Codex Entry[]
Benning was once a thriving human colony, but the Reapers have rounded up a large portion of the populace for processing. Some pockets of civilian resistance still elude the Reapers, however, and rescue attempts are underway. A "resistance radio" established during the early days of the attack continues to broadcast, exhorting survivors to band together and discussing rumors of safe havens. Unfortunately, those rumors have begun to result in ambushes, increasing the desperation of those who remain free.
Through all this, Benning's automated agricultural systems have continued to operate, leading to unprecedented stores of food in the planet's granaries and warehouses.

Missions[]
Mission: N7: Cerberus Abductions
Mission: Benning: Evidence
Trivia[]
The Mass Effect 3 multiplayer map Firebase Ghost is located on Benning.



