


Help a grieving dad obtain closureAs always, all roads lead to the Citadel1/2
Ambassador Dominic Osoba is looking for evidence of his son, lost during a mission on Benning. Find evidence of what happened to his son and return to the ambassador.
Alternative journal entry:
Dog tags for a dead soldier have been recovered from Benning. Return to the Citadel and deliver them to the soldier's spouse or next of kin.

Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Priority: Palaven

Prerequisite: N7: Cerberus Abductions

On the Citadel Embassies, Ambassador Osoba can be overheard trying to find information about his missing son. Speak to him and you will find out that his son's squadmates returned from Benning without him but will not talk about what happened, and you can offer to help.
If you didn't speak with the ambassador, picking up the Dog Tag during a Hackett-sanctioned operation on Benning will result in this mission's acquisition. It is alternatively labeled Benning: Dog Tags in the journal entry.

Walkthrough[]
Note: This mission must be completed before doing Priority: Tuchanka as it will be the last opportunity to visit the Citadel in its present state. It is no longer available the next time the civilian areas reopen, after Priority: The Citadel II. 


This is another item retrieval mission within a mission. While you're on Benning, pay close attention to the building numbers painted on the sides of their doorways. From your starting position in the parent mission the tags are in an open area due northwest surrounded by building numbers 22, 25, and 27. The tags are on the ground near a support column near building 22. Look carefully as they are easily missed, and there are no Shepard quips indicating you obtained something once you get them.
If you missed the tags, you can purchase them from the Spectre Requisitions store in the Spectre Office at the Citadel Embassies for 1,000 credits base price and then present them to Osoba.
You gain 5 Reputation and 90 experience for completing this mission.

Trivia[]
On Shepard's visits to the Purgatory nightclub, in the lobby a group of drunk soldiers can be overheard animatedly relating the heroics of their squadmate on a past mission. After the Dog Tag has been delivered to Dominic Osoba, the soldiers raise their glasses to the bravery of their fallen comrade - who turns out to have been Bilal Osoba. As addressed by his father, listening to them talk about his sacrifice is not enough evidence, the mission must be completed and the Dog Tag must be acquired.
The tags bear the SSV Normandy's image, the same asset used in the crew tags in the Mass Effect 2 assignment Normandy Crash Site.



