


Biotic Orbs is a biotic power in Mass Effect 3's multiplayer mode. 

Power Ranks[]
Rank 1: Biotic Orbs[]
Summon 3 biotic orbs to float around you. Use the power again to launch an orb at your target. Each floating orb increases the recharge speed of your powers by 10%.
Highly effective against armor and barriers.

Recharge Speed: 24 sec
Damage: 250
Radius: 1.50 m
Recharge Speed Per Orb: 10%


Rank 2: Recharge Speed[]
Increase recharge speed by 25%.

Recharge Speed: 19.20 sec
Damage: 250
Radius: 1.50 m
Recharge Speed Per Orb: 10%


Rank 3: Damage[]
Increase damage by 20%.

Recharge Speed: 19.20 sec
Damage: 300
Radius: 1.50 m
Recharge Speed Per Orb: 10%


Rank 4: Damage/Impact Radius[]



Damage
Increase damage by 30%.

Recharge Speed: 19.20 sec
Damage: 375
Radius: 1.50 m
Recharge Speed Per Orb: 10%


Impact Radius
Increase impact radius by 100%.

Recharge Speed: 19.20 sec
Damage: 300
Radius: 3 m
Recharge Speed Per Orb: 10%



Rank 5: Damage/Recharge Speed[]



Damage
Increase damage by 40%.

Recharge Speed: 19.20 sec
Damage: 475 (Damage), 400 (Impact Radius)
Radius: 1.50 m (Damage), 3 m (Impact Radius)
Recharge Speed Per Orb: 10%


Recharge Speed
Increase the recharge speed of each orb by 5%.

Recharge Speed: 19.20 sec
Damage: 375 (Damage), 300 (Impact Radius)
Radius: 1.50 m (Damage), 3 m (Impact Radius)
Recharge Speed Per Orb: 15%



Rank 6: Expose/Orb Count[]



Expose
Each orb impact causes the target to take 15% more damage from all sources for 6 seconds. This effect can stack up to 3 times.



Orb Count
Increase the number of orbs summoned by 1. This also boosts the maximum recharge speed bonus applied by the orbs.


Player Notes[]
Mechanics
Biotic Orbs is one of the few universal detonator powers, capable of setting off all four types of Power Combos.
The cooldown of Biotic Orbs is fairly long and works similarly to other powers with "charges" like the hammer powers of the Krogan Warlord Sentinel and the Geth Juggernaut Soldier's Siege Pulse.
Biotic Orbs will speed up its own cooldown as long as the Orbs are active.
It's still possible to fire Biotic Orbs even when the player is disabled by a Seeker Swarm as long as charges remain; however, recasting it is disabled until the effect wears off
A +200% power recharge speed bonus from loadout will allow the recharge time to be about 8 seconds instead of 24 seconds (or roughly 19 seconds at Rank 2 and above), allowing orbs to be used as a semi-consistent form of attack.
The rank 6 Expose evolution does not prime targets for Biotic Explosions; thus, it likewise does not work with the biotic damage bonus of Warp Rounds.
Strategies
There are two basic strategies for using Biotic Orbs: passive and active.
When used passively, Biotic Orbs are employed as a set-it-and-forget-it power solely for the passive recharge speed buff; the volus can then focus on using its other powers as often as possible.
This also has the potential advantage of allowing either the Volus Adept or Volus Protector Vanguard to carry a heavier weapon loadout, as both Charge and Stasis have evolutions that provide a chance of not triggering a cooldown.
When used actively, the orbs are being expended instead of just being kept on. This can serve three main purposes: debuff, detonate, or direct damage.
With the Expose evolution, a maximum debuff of +45% damage can be achieved, which is equal to the Volus Engineer's peak debuff, albeit in a smaller area. This can greatly speed up the takedown of hard targets against which Charge is dangerous and Stasis useless.
The orbs can be also spent on detonating the Power Combos primed by Stasis, by the team, or by an ammo augmentation. With a light-to-medium weapon loadout, Biotic Orbs provide the detonation power required to make full use of Disruptor Rounds.
Finally, it's possible to simply use the orbs as a direct attack for their regular damage or to stun infantry targets. However, the damage of Biotic Orbs is relatively small.
The waiting time between waves is a good moment to empty the orb reserve and recast it at full strength.
Availability[]
Single-player: N/A
Multiplayer: Volus Adept, Volus Protector Vanguard


Mass Effect 3 Powers


Ammo

Armor-Piercing Ammo • Cryo Ammo • Disruptor Ammo • Incendiary Ammo • Warp Ammo


Biotic

Annihilation Field • Barrier • Biotic Focus • Biotic Hammer • Biotic Orbs • Biotic Protector • Biotic Slash • Biotic Sphere • Charge • Cluster Grenade • Dark Channel • Dark Sphere • Dominate • Flare • Lash • Lift Grenade • Nova • Poison Strike • Pull • Reave • Seeker Swarm • Shockwave • Singularity • Slam • Smash • Stasis • Throw • Warp • Warp Ammo


Combat

Adrenaline Rush • Arc Grenade • Ballistic Blades • Blade Armor • Bloodlust • Cain Trip Mine • Carnage • Concussive Shot • Devastator Mode • Fortification • Frag Grenade • Hawk Missile Launcher • Inferno Grenade • Marksman • Multi-Frag Grenade • Nightshade Blades • Phase Disruptor • Proximity Mine • Recon Mine • Repair Matrix • Sticky Grenade • Stimulant Pack


Tech

Armor-Piercing Arrows • Combat Drone • Concussive Arrows • Cryo Blast • Decoy • Defense Drone • Defense Matrix • Electric Slash • Electrical Hammer • Energy Drain • Flamer • Geth Turret • Havoc Strike • Hex Shield • Homing Grenade • Hunter Mode • Incinerate • Overload • Sabotage • Sentry Turret • Shadow Strike • Shield Boost • Siege Pulse • Snap Freeze • Submission Net • Supply Pylon • Tactical Cloak • Tactical Scan • Tech Armor


Fitness

Fitness (Adept) • Fitness (Engineer) • Fitness (Infiltrator) • Fitness (Sentinel) • Fitness (Soldier) • Fitness (Vanguard)


Fitness (multiplayer)

Advanced Hardware • Ancient Warrior • Fitness Module • Hardened Platform • Omni-Bow Mastery • Rage • Shield Mastery • Sword Mastery • T5-V Internal Systems • Venom Gauntlets • Warlord Rage


Player Class

Assault Mastery • Biotic Mastery • Combat Mastery • Offensive Mastery • Operational Mastery • Tech Mastery


Player Class (multiplayer)

Alliance Training • Armiger Legion • Asari Huntress • Asari Justicar • Asari Valkyrie • Batarian Enforcer • Drell Assassin • Elite Mercenary • Geth Juggernaut • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Krogan Warlord • N7 Demolisher • N7 Fury • N7 Paladin • N7 Shadow • N7 Slayer • Networked AI • Phoenix Training • Quarian Defender • Salarian Operative • T5-V Battlesuit • Turian Veteran • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient • Volus Training • Vorcha Resilience


Squadmate Class

Alliance Admiral • Alliance Officer • Arms Master • Asari Justicar • Biotic Boss • Cerberus Officer • Cerberus Operative • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Master Thief • Mercenary Veteran • Pure Biotic • Quarian Machinist • Subject Zero • Turian Huntress • Turian Rebel • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient




