


Blackrock Tande is an uneven plateau far northwest of Prodromos. It is bounded by Presson Dunes from east to south, and uncharted Eos wilderness elsewhere.
The area has sheer cliffs on all sides and a couple of jutting buttes. It can be conventionally explored via an ascending path that has a forward station site at the base. It has two kett camps, three concentrations of Remnant ruins, and a small underground complex with a lootable chest protected by Remnant Glyph encryption. There are two hidden caches and one mining site, which can potentially yield rich amounts of aluminum, graphite, iron, and vanadium. Creepers are the only known wildlife in the area.
Grace Lito supposed Eos has teeth when she named the place Blackrock Tande.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Blackrock Tande is used by dissenting factions of kett and angara. An audio transmission declaring defiance against the Archon's Remnant obsession (or swearing to hunt down any of his followers still alive) can be traced to a kett base in the plateau. Following through leads Pathfinder Ryder to a holo-meeting with the Primus and a possible collaboration to take the Archon down—or, if the Archon was already defeated by this point, more audio logs revealing the kett have begun sending reinforcements from their home territories.
The Roekaar have set up a staging ground at one of the Remnant sites in preparation for an assault on Prodromos. Ryder and Jaal Ama Darav can preemptively deal with this threat and manipulate the Roekaar into deploying dropships on Site 2: Resilience instead of Prodromos.
The Remnant underground complex becomes infested with kett instead of Remnant if Ryder investigates a data trail from procured Remnant Data Core Nodes. It leads to a console containing detailed records on Eos' wildlife, deemed vital information by SAM.

Missions[]



Allies and Relationships
Dissension in the Ranks
Jaal Ama Darav: Friend or Foe? II


Additional Tasks
Task: Data Trail

Trivia[]
Getting submerged in ferrofluid around the topside entrance of the underground complex does not incur a damage penalty unlike most other ferrofluid pools in the game.



