






This article is about the mech enemy from Mass Effect: Andromeda. For other uses, see Hydra (disambiguation).



Blaze Hydra

 







Faction
Outlaws


Weapons / Attacks
Chain GunMelee


Abilities
RPG VolleyPost-Mortem Explosion


Armor
Very High


Shields
–


Weak Points
Laser "eye", Canister (on back)


The Blaze Hydra is a stronger and more dangerous variant of the Hydra. It is only found on Firebases across the Heleus Cluster and not encountered in any of Pathfinder Ryder's travels.
The Blaze Hydra typically appears as a "boss" target while fighting Outlaws. It has the same armaments and defenses as the baseline Hydra, only it hits harder and is much tougher. It also moves significantly faster especially if it has a target in mind.
In contrast to the predominantly white Hydras, Blaze Hydras arrive in dark red and black, with purple highlights and some markings along its "eye" that seem to be a tally of some kind.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
The Blaze Hydra's left arm is a large cannon. In addition to this, it is capable of shooting off a barrage of laser-guided missiles after locking on a target with its tri-laser "eye". Its right arm is a claw capable of grabbing enemies, throwing them, and slamming them into the ground.
The mech prefers to engage in close quarters combat and uses its enhanced agility to quickly close the gap between its prey.

Defensive
Blaze Hydras are protected by extremely heavy armor.

Tactics[]
Tactics for beating Hydras also apply to Blaze Hydras. However, the mech should be engaged and kept at range at all times since it can close in on a target fast given the chance.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




