


Blood Dragon Armor is a non-customizable armor in Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3.

Contents

1 Mass Effect 2

1.1 Description
1.2 Acquisition
1.3 Player Notes


2 Mass Effect 3

2.1 Description
2.2 Acquisition
2.3 Player Notes


3 Trivia
4 See also


Mass Effect 2[]


Blood Dragon Armor






Effects
+15% Power Damage+10% Shield Strength


Starting Health
200


Starting Shields
275


Availability
Dragon Age Bonus Item



Description[]
Originally created for Earth's Urban Combat Championship league, this set of armor has undergone as much or more field testing than those of modern militaries. It uses a unique, proprietary power cell that costs as much as a EUCC rookie's contract. The armor's microframe computer adapts to any top-tier omni-tool, kinetic barrier, or biotic amp, giving breathtaking and error-free performance. The chest and shoulder piece bears the logo of the Edmonton Blood Dragons, and the inside of the armor bears the signatures of the entire team. When and how the Illusive Man got his hands on the armor is unknown, but several of the signatures bear messages such as "[expletive] the geth!" and "Shepard, get well soon!!!"
Increases power damage by 15%.
Increases shield strength by 10%.

Acquisition[]
The armor is obtained by entering the registration code for Dragon Age: Origins. Previously, it was also available for redemption from the now-defunct BioWare Social Network through the Dragon Age DLC Bundle. When starting Mass Effect 2 again, the armor is available for download through the Downloadable Content menu. After installation, an e-mail is received from the Illusive Man regarding delivery of the armor. 
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition it can be purchased from Omega Market for 15,000 credits.




Blood Dragon ArmorShepard,


Jacob tells me you've been keeping an eye out for cutting-edge supplies -- weapons, armor, amps, and so forth. It so happens that I had something waiting for you when you awoke in the Lazarus Research Station. It was lost in the chaos but found again when Cerberus secured the station. I had it delivered to the Normandy. Look in the armor closet in your quarters -- it'll be hard to miss.


Player Notes[]
Due to its high power damage modifier, it is one of the best armor choices for Adepts, Engineers, and Sentinels.
Mass Effect 3[]


Blood Dragon Armor






Effects
+10% Power Recharge Speed+30% Power Damage+20% Shields


Availability
Kanala Exports



Description[]
Originally created for Earth's Urban Combat Championship league, this set of armor has undergone as much or more field testing than those of modern militaries. It uses a unique, proprietary power cell that costs as much as a EUCC rookie's contract. The armor's microframe computer adapts to any top-tier omni-tool, kinetic barrier, or biotic amp, giving breathtaking and error-free performance. The chest and shoulder piece bears the logo of the Edmonton Blood Dragons, and the inside of the armor bears the signatures of the entire team.

Acquisition[]
The Blood Dragon Armor can be purchased from Kanala Exports in the Presidium Commons for 50,000 credits without discounts, or through Procurement terminals located in the Normandy's shuttle bay or Armax Arsenal Arena for 55,000 credits without discounts.

Player Notes[]
The bonuses appear to be keyed towards class builds that rely on power usage, with an extra emphasis towards protection. With these benefits, it allows Adepts and Engineers a bit more freedom to run-and-gun out in the open, improves the already substantial defenses of the Sentinel, complements creative, high-damaging Infiltrator builds, and provides the offensively-focused Vanguard more protection when making their risky, yet powerful Biotic Charges.

Trivia[]
The Edmonton Blood Dragons is likely a reference to BioWare, which is headquartered in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
See also[]
Mass Effect 2 Arsenal: Armor
Dragon Age: Origins version of the Blood Dragon Armor




Mass Effect 2 Armor




Armor Customization • Armor Upgrades


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Assault Armor • Collector Chitin Armor  Inferno Armor • Terminus Armor • Kestrel Armor





Mass Effect 2 Downloadable Content




Promotional

Blood Dragon Armor • Collectors' Weapon and Armor • Inferno Armor  M-29 Incisor Sniper Rifle • Terminus Weapon and Armor


Cerberus Network

Zaeed - The Price of Revenge • Normandy Crash Site  Cerberus Weapon and Armor • Arc Projector • Firewalker Pack


Missions

Kasumi - Stolen Memory • Overlord • Lair of the Shadow Broker • Arrival


Additional Content

Alternate Appearance Packs •  Equalizer Pack • Aegis Pack • Firepower Pack  Mass Effect: Genesis • Recon Operations Pack • N7 Complete Arsenal Bundle





Mass Effect 3 Armor




Armor Customization


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Ajax Armor • Cerberus Armor • Cerberus Nightmare ArmorCerberus Shade Armor • Cerberus Spirit Armor • Collector Armor • Inferno Armor • N7 Defender ArmorReckoner Knight Armor • Terminus Assault Armor




