


This is a transcription of the documentary "Making Bring Down the Sky" found on the bonus content disc of Mass Effect released in 2008.

Menu Description[]
Get an inside look at Bring Down the Sky, an exciting new chapter in the Mass Effect story.

Content[]
Greg Zeschuk: I think one of the things we set out to do with Bring Down the Sky, to really create that attachment to Mass Effect players, was to show them something new and different. This is one of the fundamental goals, right from the beginning. "You know what? Just whatever." No, really, we've never had that philosophy, all the way back. Whenever we launched, originally, to the version of PC, to Bring Down the Sky, we wanted to show something different. Different type of gameplay, different character classes they've never seen, that's not what the fans value. Fans value the ability to expand their view of the Mass Effect game, so we did with Bring Down the Sky.
Corey Andruko: We had the exact same team making Bring Down the Sky. We were a lot of the same people. And we were starting the planning already before we actually finished Mass Effect 1. The challenge being that a lot of us were doing some tasks, switching back and forth, between planning that downloadable content module, while we were still finishing up Mass Effect 1. But the real advantage then was that we had people, the writers, the tech designers, the animators, everybody who was on Mass Effect 1 who knew the IP so well, working on the downloadable content so that we could integrate it seamlessly.
David Falkner: Everything in Mass Effect is the universe hangs in the balance. We wanted to get that kind of bridge story in right after the main game. We wanted to really make it feel like a continuation of Shepard's adventure. I really hope that we accomplished that.
Dusty Everman: It was one challenge with Bring Down the Sky, being since it's like a downloadable module that some people will buy, some people won't see, we wanted to make it as integrated in the story as we could in the universe, but we couldn't make it part of the core planets, part of the core story. Just kind of mirror off the core story and hint at things that would be coming in Mass Effect 2 and the books and such that. It's like in Bring Down the Sky, you happen to be in the right space at the right time and get this new little piece of adventure around Terra Nova that reflects the main plot, has the batarians that have been mentioned before and hinted at.
The batarians you deal with in Bring Down the Sky are terrorists. And there's a lot of bad blood between the humans and the batarians. Who knows, maybe it comes from what we have in modern day, always reflect what people understand, what people know.
Yanick Roy: When we first added the planet, we were trying to look at what elements can we add to it to make it more like a core storyline. That's when we thought about using the batarians, the great villains of Mass Effect that had been introduced in Revelation. It all started from there, "how do you make them the big villain?" And right now, of course, we live in a world where the big villains are the terrorists. It's no longer the East versus the West and the Cold War. So we wanted to use that to drive how bad these people were, killing for the sake of killing, killing civilians. I think the setting that we had of being an uncharted world, it needed to be this planet, we used an asteroid in that case. And visually it creates this great view of the looming planet that you're just about to crash on.
Derek Watts: We were kind of playing around with the ideas of four eyes. Didn't want to go too many. Eight was probably out of question, our character artists would panic. We had enough time to travel with some of the other stuff we were dealing with on the game. So we drew this up and, basically like this guy here, he had four eyes, kind of the shape of the head is what we wanted, these interesting nostrils, and Matt did a really awesome job on them. We were trying to re-use some of the elements from the original game. And one idea was to take the mining entrance on Therum. I don't know if you remember this, but in the game it's at the platform that you kind of walked up to, and then you would go down into the mines. We kind of liked the shape of this, and then just added up these four supports that would hold the rocket on, and got a reuse out of that. It actually turned out really well. And then just by adding the effects, adding the sound, created this really unique piece in the level.
Corey Andruko: Working on downloadable content is really a great opportunity, because it's really like "Game Development 101." In a very short timeframe, you have to build the entire content of the game. Building Bring Down the Sky took in total about eight months from beginning to end. There was a lot of planning at the beginning, so that's not all heavy development time. But planning started before Mass Effect actually had finished and we had actually released it.
Dusty Everman: So we knew we could kind of add some interesting challenges to the module. And it kind of opened us up to do a little bit more, maybe difficult fights, add some new interesting puzzles. So it's kind of a challenge to us as designers to come in and try to come up with some new ideas. We knew that we couldn't have a code patch, so we're still living within the code base of the first Mass Effect. And it was really fun to kind of try to figure out what could we do new. So we came in and tried to make some more interesting Mako combats. We had like turrets with shields that could kind of, you know, make it so that you can cheat from long distances and snipe them from far away. Had a little minefield. Tried to soup up the combats a little bit with the batarians, tried to give them a little bit of flavor. Giving them like they had their own war dogs. Get some more dialogue that they could be talking in the combats, give them some personality. "Release the varrens!" and you'd be like, "okay," you're going to have to deal with some melee creatures coming in on you. That was a lot of fun.



Mass Effect Bonus Content Disc


Documentaries

Inside Mass Effect • The Vision of Mass Effect • The Making of Mass Effect • Interactive Storytelling • Sci vs. Fi: Mass Effect • Making Bring Down the Sky • Beyond the Game • The Future of Mass Effect


Galleries: Creatures

Asari • Creatures • Elcor • Geth • Hanar • Humans • Keepers • Krogan • Quarians • Rachni • Salarians • The Thorian • Turians • Unrealized Concepts • Volus


Galleries: Environments

Caleston • Citadel • Early Concepts • Eden Prime • Feros • Ilos • Noveria • Virmire


Galleries: Technology

Geth Weapons • Human Furniture • Human Helmets • Human Items • Human Weapons • Ground Vehicles • Mass Relays • Space Vehicles - Geth • Space Vehicles - Human • Space Vehicles - Other Races • Space Vehicles - Turian • Normandy - 1st Floor • Normandy - 2nd Floor • Normandy - 3rd Floor • Normandy - Exterior




