




Borr

Region
Milky Way / Exodus Cluster / Asgard





Planet View


Orbital Distance
2.2 AU


Orbital Period
3.3 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.978


Radius
74,612 km


Day Length
8.8 Earth Hours


Satellites
> 90


Location: Milky Way / Exodus Cluster / Asgard System /  Second planet

Prerequisite: Bring Down the Sky (Mass Effect)

Contents

1 Description

1.1 Mass Effect
1.2 Mass Effect 3


2 Search and Rescue
3 Properties
4 Trivia


Description[]
Mass Effect[]
Borr is a huge hydrogen-helium gas giant with over 90 moons. Its striking coloration is caused by the light of ionized hydrogen filtering through an upper cloud deck of sodium. The source of the ionization has not yet been confirmed, but Borr's mass (equal to six Jupiters) and high temperature suggest it may be a small "brown dwarf", a large gas giant that gained nearly enough mass to ignite into a small star.
Through Borr's deep gravity well makes mining operations difficult, it is the only gas giant in the system. The hydrogen needed for the local fuel cell industry, combined with the ever-present need for helium-3 fusion torch fuel, make it economical to mine.

Mass Effect 3[]
Borr is a hydrogen-helium gas giant with over 90 moons. The light of ionized hydrogen filtering through an upper cloud deck of sodium causes its striking coloration. The source of the ionization has not yet been confirmed, but Borr's mass (equal to six Jupiters) and high temperature suggest it may be a "brown dwarf," a gas giant that gained almost enough mass to ignite into a small star.
The Reapers destroyed Borr's extensive helium-3 infrastructure, although wreckage indicates that the Sixth Fleet did not give up the planet without a fight.

Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Intel: Remains of a Reaper Destroyer
Properties[]
Orbital distance derived from a solar mass of 0.99, itself derived from Loki's semimajor axis.
Borr emits more radiation than it gets from Asgard, but does not have enough mass to reach the T dwarf status of a brown dwarf such as Gliese 229 b.
Contrary to the in-game description, Borr's mass is actually much lower than that required for it to achieve sustained hydrogen-1 fusion and become a low-mass star (about .072 percent of the Sun's mass, equivalent to approximately 75.45 Jupiter masses).  In fact, it is even too low to fuse deuterium (which occurs at 16 Jupiter masses), meaning that Borr would be better classified as a "sub-brown dwarf" instead.

Trivia[]
In keeping with the naming theme of the Asgard system, Borr is named after the father of the Norse god Odin.



