


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 







Buxil
Data Analyst

Race
Angara


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Buxil is an Angaran Resistance operative on Techiix. A part-time hacker, she operates in support roles and prefers to leave the fighting to those who are good at it.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Buxil's known family include her son Skeot, her brother Niilj, and Skeot's father who died in a kett labor camp.
Buxil used to be a researcher at Ja Niihk. She barely escaped the attack that resulted in the site falling into kett hands.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Pathfinder Ryder can encounter Buxil on comms with Anjik Do Xeel regarding Niilj's whereabouts. If he's already free, she's annoyed he didn't even call to tell her he's still alive. If Skeot directed the Pathfinder to Niilj, Buxil is glad to be proven wrong as she initially thought they'll just be more casualties. Whichever the case, she thanks Ryder for Niilj's freedom as losing him would set back the Resistance efforts by months.
Ryder can give Buxil a data drive procured by Niilj's team for decryption and analysis. She discovers it contains the layout and security arrangements of the Kett Base itself, though its entrances are protected by a shield whose deactivation code frequently changes. As the information is several weeks old and due to be replaced soon, and because the Resistance might take too long assembling a team, she charges Ryder's team with assaulting the base immediately. If she's talked to afterward, she urges the Pathfinder to get going, though she can still answer some questions they may have.
Once the Kett Base has been purged, Buxil takes a shuttle there and congratulates the Pathfinder on a job well done. The angara have been trying to take it down for months and Ryder made it look easy. She intends to inspect the base for anything worthwile, though before doing so she may answer Ryder's queries about Ja Niihk and whether they'll go there immediately or resupply first.

Trivia[]
If Niilj is still in captivity when Techiix is visited for the first time, Buxil's comm conversation with Anjik regarding his leaving Voeld still plays out as if he's already free.



