









Cain Fawkes
Chief Engineer

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Cain Fawkes is the chief engineer assigned to Prodromos. He leads the team that sets up the basic necessities of a growing civilization: proper water, power, and communications infrastructures. He's located on the second floor of the northeasternmost two-story building in the colony.

Background[]
Fawkes grew up on Viridis, an obscure colony back in the Milky Way. He saw first-hand the disastrous consequences that could result if a colony failed to properly account for its figures before building anything, even had to live for days without drinking water. It sparked his interest in civil engineering, as he thought people deemed it boring stuff unless they lived without it.
After leaving Viridis and schooling he decided that the Andromeda Initiative was just the right fit for what he wanted to do: build a colony up the right way, and avoid the mistakes of Viridis.






“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
The chief engineer has an amiable working relationship with the other Prodromos staff. He regards Kim Connor as good company, but warns Pathfinder Ryder not to befriend her while playing poker. He thinks August Bradley is shaping up to be a good mayor, and promises to keep voting for him even if other candidates appear. He deems Hainly Abrams nice but too workaholic, thinking it's her way of coping while her fiance's still in cryostasis.
Fawkes is optimistic about the future of Eos, undaunted by the effort needed. The Remnant are an unknown factor, but Bradley assured him the Pathfinder has them handled. As time passes, he begins to feel Prodromos is shaping up to be a town, not just an outpost, owing to their setup of utilities. New citizens arrive every day, and he deems Ryder an honorary citizen for their prior contributions.
If Ryder agrees to plant survey hammers for Hainly, Fawkes takes credit for building them, though he advises the Pathfinder's team to watch their fingers.
If asked for his reaction to the failed Roekaar attack on Prodromos, he admits to feeling useless, since building roads and making water flow is his specialty, not killing people.
Fawkes has a terminal filled with notes and doodles related to his job. It grows in scope in reaction to certain events. After Ryder's encounter with an Architect, Cain muses about seismic hammer designs that won't attract such monsters. After the attempted Roekaar invasion, he conceptualizes a trebuchet that launches crop harvesting drones.




