









Calantha Blake




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Armament
Pistol


Abilities
Unknown


Health
Low


Shields
Very Low


Locations
Feros


Calantha Blake is a human colonist at Zhu's Hope, on Feros.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Commander Shepard finds Calantha in the Borealis' medical room, apparently in severe pain and being tended to by her husband, Hollis Blake. Though the squad can tell she is suffering, there is no obvious cause for her discomfort. Calantha is quick to claim she is fine, and it is only a lingering pain from the last attack: "I just need to try and think clearly." She is in fact suffering from the Thorian spores, which are beginning to exert control over her by causing immense pain if she tries to tell Shepard what is really happening at Zhu's Hope. 
She joins the other colonists in attacking Shepard and the squad when they return from the ExoGeni Corporation headquarters. Like all the other infected colonists, she can be killed or rendered unconscious. She lies in wait with Davin Reynolds in the stairs between the elevator to the Prothean Skyway and the colony proper, along with some Thorian Creepers.
If she survived past the Thorian's destruction, she can be found sitting up in her cot back in the Borealis. Like most colonists, she's grateful for Shepard's deeds. She recounts her experience with the Thorian, comparing it to being slapped if her eyes left the ground. 
If the colony survived, she thanks the Commander for bringing hope again. She doesn't know yet if she'll stay or move on, though she's glad to have the choice either way. Otherwise, if too many died she announces her plan to move away as she hates what happened there. She's angry at the whole thing because in retrospect she and the others were exploited and lived a lie even before the Thorian ruined their lives.

Trivia[]
Calantha Blake is voiced by Marianne Copithorne.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





