







The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

Caleston: Redemption, also known as Caleston: Jason's Seven Steps, is an assignment in Mass Effect which was cut during development. Centered on Jason Harrah's character, it was the longest side-plot on Caleston, and could have consequences on the mission Caleston: Last Man Standing.

Acquisition[]
This mission would be acquired after walking into Ruushok's bar The Seventh Moon and witnessing the cutscene presenting Jason Harrah, Tatiana Naidenov and Sebastian Van Heerden.

Plotline[]

Walking into the Seventh Moon, Commander Shepard sees Throw Down's security officer feebly walk up to Ruushok to order some whiskey. Nearby, Van Heerden visibly taunts him under Tatiana's horrified gaze, but Harrah ignores him and moves on, while Ruushok recalls with amusement the beating that Van Heerden previously gave Harrah. Soon after however, tensions rise in the bar between turians and humans, and Harrah tries to intervene but the turians start ganging up on him. At this point, Shepard may decide to intervene by shooting or intimidating the turians, or simply can choose to stay out of it. In either case, Harrah afterwards will not be exactly grateful but he'll be less irritated if he wasn't beaten up, and he walks back to his office.
At this point, the player may learn more about the story between Harrah and Tatiana by speaking to Maddie Kedward, Matthew Baudelaire, Nonya Tombiri or by visiting Jason in his office. Trying to talk to either Van Heerden or Tatiana at the bar won't bear any results as Van Heerden forbids her to talk to you, and he refuses to engage in conversation. Whatever the case, you can offer your help to Harrah in this situation, telling him you need him to sober up before you take on the gangs plaguing the station. However, Harrah will keep relapsing into alcohol as long as Shepard hasn't picked up the bottles scattered around his office. Once that's done, he will start thinking more clearly while complaining about withdrawal. He then wants Shepard to ask Tatiana how she really feels about him. Back at The Seventh Moon, Van Heerden now allows Shepard to talk to Tatiana, or he can be persuaded to reveal the truth by appealing to his military past. Either one will reveal that Tatiana still loves Jason, but was ordered by Van Heerden to lie with the threat that Harrah would be harmed otherwise. Going back to Harrah with this will motivate him further to act, and Shepard can then decide if now's the time for it, or if some other things should be taken care of first.


If Shepard chooses to proceed, then going to the bar again will trigger a scene where Van Heerden kills a man for getting too close to Tatiana. Tensions between turians and humans rise once more as a result, and Harrah demands to arrest Van Heerden. Shepard may use Charm or Intimidate to make everyone else leave, or a shootout happens between the humans and aliens, and Harrah may be harmed. If they're alone, then Van Heerden refuses to surrender and either dies, or shoots Harrah and turns on Shepard. In the aftermath, if Harrah was shot, he dies with a tearful Tatiana by his side. If they're both fine, then Harrah thanks Shepard and realizes Tatiana needs a safe place to hide in. Shepard may suggest to have her stay on the Normandy until the gangs are taken care of, in which case she can be found in the Normandy's cargo hold until the end of Caleston: Last Man Standing. If not, Harrah takes her somewhere safe on the station, but she'll be fine either way. At this point, Harrah is also available for help during the confrontation with Sessa Tarrent after dealing with Smiley, where he will prevent a bloodshed if Shepard doesn't use Charm or Intimidate to diffuse the situation.
After Last Man Standing has been completed, assuming Harrah survived, he and Tatiana can be found together again, saying they're both very happy and going to get married soon.

References[]
Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Redemption Voicelines
Plot Database: LE1.DLC_Caleston.Redemption



