






This article is about the cut version of Therum. For the planet in Mass Effect 2 and 3, see Caleston.






The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.


Caleston is the original name for the planet Therum in Mass Effect, before a massive amount of its planned content was cut. Like Therum, it was to be where Commander Shepard would find Liara T'Soni. However, like Feros and Noveria, Caleston also had a hub area with several missions, assignments, and many characters to interact with called Throw Down. An element zero refinery was located underneath, the focal point of the ongoing gang war between the Miners' Union and the Cartel.
Some distance away from Throw Down, a set of Prothean ruins known as Knossos could be found inside a supervolcano caldera called the "Ring of Fire", which is where the player lands on Therum in the final game. Although no mention of either name is ever made on Therum, the star system it's located in is called Knossos.


Unlike Therum's dark and stormy sky, cut dialogues and development images consistently depict Caleston as having a clear yellow/green sky. While no mention of the rarity of Prothean ruins on Therum is ever made, Throw Down's administrator Tombiri claims there are "hundreds" of Prothean ruins on Caleston, though most were not as well preserved as Knossos.
Caleston is mentioned to be a moon, not a planet. The X06 trailer description implies Cernunnos as the name of the planet it orbits, just like in Mass Effect 2 and 3 when both bodies were made canon.

Contents

1 Game Descriptions

1.1 Datamined Description
1.2 X06 Trailer Description


2 Missions
3 Assignments
4 Trivia
5 See Also
6 References


Game Descriptions[]
Datamined Description[]
Geysers of molten suphur dot the rugged landscape of this volcanic moon, its atmosphere a toxic layer of sulphur dioxide. Eldfell-Ashland Energy established mining operations on Caleston to extract the scattered deposits of element zero leftover from an ancient meteor strike, making this moon the largest source of starship drive core material in the Attican Traverse.[1]

X06 Trailer Description[]
The hostile moon of Caleston is the largest satellite of the gas giant Cernunnos. An ancient asteroid strike deposited major lodes of element zero within its molten sulphur mantle. Eldfell-Ashland Energy's mining operations have made it the largest source of starship drive core material in the Attican Traverse.
Caleston is wracked by constant volcanism, due to the tidal stresses from Cernunnos. It has some silicon-based native organic life, though populations seem to be in decline.

Missions[]
Mission: Caleston: Last Man Standing
Mission: Find Liara T'Soni
Assignments[]
Assignment: Caleston: Redemption
Assignment: Caleston: Reactivate Production
Assignment: Caleston: Free Prostitutes
Trivia[]
Much of the architecture for Throw Down was later repurposed as the final fight location in Bring Down the Sky. The background story later served as a basis for the criminal haven on Omega.[2]
Though Caleston (under that name) was cut from the first game, a somehow similar planet would re-use the same name in Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3, where it is a moon of Cernunnos, similar to one of Caleston's trailer descriptions.

Caleston recurringly featured in Mass Effect trailers up until release:
A star system called "Caleston System" is featured in Mass Effect's E3 2006 trailer, where it is shown to be located in the "Perseus Cluster."
The X06 trailer shows Caleston being located in the "Hades G Cluster", "Hades CGA 12506" system.
In the 2007 television ad, Shepard denies a request for help coming from Noveria to head to Caleston instead.
See Also[]
Bonus Content Disc/Environments: Caleston
References[]

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Miscellaneous Texts#Galaxy Map Descriptions

↑ PAX East 2013 Mass Effect: Exploring the Universe Saturday panel, 31:30





