




Camala

Region
Milky Way / Kite's Nest / Indris





Planet View


Orbital Distance
1.4 AU


Orbital Period
1.9 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.76


Radius
4,866 km


Day Length
18.1 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
1.85 atm


Surface Temp
38 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.924 g


Mass
0.534 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Kite's Nest / Indris System /  Second planet


Colony

Species
Batarian


Capital
Ujon


Colony Founded
2154 CE


Population
2,875,000(All pop. estimates are pre-invasion)



Prerequisite: Leviathan: Find Garneau (Mass Effect 3)

Description[]
Camala is a relatively small but eezo-rich garden world recently colonized by the batarians. In an unusually open gesture, the batarians allowed immigration of free citizens of other species, so long as they came from independent colony planets such as those in the Traverse and Terminus and retained non-citizen status during their stay. These strictures were small obstacles compared to the economic lure of eezo, and soon the planet boasted spaceports and refineries that considerably enriched the Hegemony. The planet enjoyed relative peace and prosperity, with the major lifestyle inconvenience being fresh water shortages due to a dry climate.
The Reaper invasion has turned Camala's cities from affluent oases into a living nightmare. Alliance intelligence suggests that early in the Reaper invasion, a high percentage of the planet's population was captured and converted to husk creatures for future offensives. The processing camps still run night and day, and the troop transports fly legions of cannibals out every hour. For this reason, Alliance command has put Camala squarely in its sights for military strikes.

Additional Information[]
Camala's surface consists mostly of inhospitable desert and rock, scattered with hundreds of lucrative mining and refinery operations. 
In the mid-2160s, Camala was noted as being the wealthiest batarian colony and a key supplier of element zero. Besides the capital Ujon, the city of Hatre is a populous port city. The planet was home to Edan Had'dah, a batarian aristocrat, and was the site of the Dah'tan Manufacturing facility.
Another notable (former) resident is Jalosk Dal'Virra, who's known to have witnessed the beginning of the Reaper invasion and managed to escape the planet to secure passage for himself and his children at the Andromeda Initiative ark Keelah Si'yah.

Trivia[]
Camala is a mission location in the N7 HQ Galaxy at War mini-game for Mass Effect 3.



