









Camden
Hydroponic Sciences Head

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Doctor Camden is the head of Hydroponic Sciences. He can be found wandering by the Hydroponics wing in the Common Area of the Nexus.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Doctor Camden brushes off Pathfinder Ryder on first meet, berating them for throwing the air balance off just when he's done tweaking it. He's only rude when he sees a mistake that could kill the Nexus. He's very cautious because the station's hydroponic supplies - their air, food, and water - all were almost lost during the failed uprising before the Pathfinder's arrival.
If Ryder expresses sympathies, Camden indicates he's aware of the Pathfinder's surprise responsibilities and offers to share burdens. If Ryder wants him to be more welcoming so he'd have more assistance, Camden hopes he can begin with the Pathfinder. He needs samples of Andromeda plant life so he can acclimatize their own plants in exchange for his gratitude and a reward.
Doctor Camden can often be overheard tending to the plants or recording memos while Ryder is in the floor above him. He's frustrated at a "cretin" who sent three crates of potting soil, wanting him to learn the dictionary definition of "hydroponics". He wants Director Tann to stop asking for daily plant growth reports. He declines Tiran Kandros' offer of an armed guard, though he suggests someone should watch the strawberry plants when harvest time comes. He has a detailed response to Nakmor Kesh's recent inquiries, which involve nitrates and probably celery. He wants Professor Herik to clean his petri dishes as he doesn't want anything to crossbreed with fire moss. 
He also has a memo for The Vortex: the hops are growing nicely, and he hopes for similar results on their still.

Trivia[]
One of Doctor Camden's quotes, "like a tree planted in rivers of water", comes from Psalm 1:1-3 of the Bible.
Doctor Camden has a different appearance in earlier versions of the game.



