






This article is about armor customization in Mass Effect 2. For armor customization in Mass Effect 3, see Armor Customization (Mass Effect 3). For equipment generally, see Equipment or Upgrades.


In Mass Effect 2, Commander Shepard's armor can be customized by swapping out pieces of the default N7 Armor for pieces purchased from merchants, or made available as downloadable content, by using the Armor Locker aboard the Normandy SR-2. Besides augmenting the armor's physical appearance, these pieces also have varying effects on Shepard's combat effectiveness. Additionally, the player can further customize the armor's appearance by changing its color, reflectiveness, or pattern.
It is recommended to be selective about purchasing Armor Customization parts as money is fairly limited in the game and always use discounts (less so with all the DLC). To purchase every armor piece with all discounts would be 54,996 credits, without a discount it would be 66,000. See the costs of upgrades in the Upgrade Guide to give an idea on whether you can afford both armor and the upgrades.
Legendary Edition:  The above information regarding credit totals may not be correct if playing Mass Effect Legendary Edition. All previous DLC for the original version of Mass Effect 2 is included by default in Legendary Edition. In the original game, most of the weapons or other items included with DLC packs becomes available automatically in the game at no additional in-game cost once the required DLC for them is installed. In Legendary Edition, most of the equipment that is "DLC exclusive" in the original game must instead be purchased with credits/mineral resources or researched in the Normandy Tech Lab just like everything else. 
As well as individually customizable pieces, it's also possible to equip Shepard with full sets of armor that provide specific bonuses. These sets can't have individual pieces swapped out, but they can provide unique combinations of bonuses that can't be had from mixing and matching pieces alone.
In addition to the many available options for Shepard's armor, the Commander can choose from a selection of casual outfits to wear when armor is not required.

Contents

1 Head
2 Chest
3 Shoulders
4 Arms
5 Legs
6 Armor Sets
7 Casual Outfits
8 Bugs
9 Trivia
10 References


Head[]


Name

Image

Description

Effects

Acquisition


N7 Helmet



Dual layer of fabric armor and kinetic padding within a lightweight ablative ceramic shell. Comes standard with a suite of communication, navigation, and battlefield awareness software.

 Increases health by 5%

Initially Available


N7 Breather Helmet



Dual layer of fabric armor and kinetic padding within a lightweight ablative ceramic shell. Comes standard with suite of communication, navigation, and battlefield awareness software. Hard-sealed to protect wearer from hazardous environmental conditions.

Increases health by 5%

Initially Available


Kuwashii Visor



Developed by Ariake Technologies, the wearer exchanges full protective coverage for visibility, unencumbered mobility, and increased accuracy.

Increases headshot damage by 10%

Harrot's Emporium2,000 credits, or1,666 discounted.


Death Mask



Developed by Tyriel Advanced Communications Corporation (TACC), the Death Mask not only offers exceptional protection but also includes an advanced audio processing package that allows unprecedented clarity and resonance for spoken communication.

Increases negotiation bonus by 10%

Ratch's Wares8,000 credits, or6,667 discounted.


Umbra Visor



A next-generation night-vision device that assists targeting. By detecting the focal point of the wearer's eyes and enhancing the image at that location, the visor helps direct a biotic power or a shot from an omni-tool exactly where the wearer is looking.

Increases power damage by 5%

Dr.Pepper Promotion  Available on Origin free of charge. Legendary Edition:  Rodam Expeditions4,000 credits, or3,333 discounted.


Recon Hood



A hood issued to covert action teams, this model's optic display interfaces with most small arms' auto-targeting software, linking hand and eye for improved accuracy and increased weapon damage. Ballistic-mesh fabric and composite ceramic plating provide necessary armor, and the integral air filter helps in hostile environments.

Increases weapon damage by 5%

Dr.Pepper Promotion  Available on Origin free of charge. Legendary Edition:   Initially Available.


Sentry Interface



This visor works with the Sentry system, a software application that optimizes an armor suit's microframe computer. When the Sentry system is running, more power can be devoted to shield management.

Increases shield strength by 5%

Dr.Pepper Promotion  Available on Origin free of charge. Legendary Edition:  Rodam Expeditions6,000 credits, or5,000 discounted.


Archon Visor



The Archon visor uses an efficiency algorithm to balance processing power for biotic amps and omni-tools. A heads-up display and voice command software allows users to micromanage the systems, reducing the cool-down period between energy expenditures.

Reduces the recharge time of your powers by 5%

Equalizer Pack Legendary Edition:  Saronis Applications5,000 credits, or4,166 credits with discount.


Capacitor Helmet



A recent design, this Alliance-made helmet stores microcapacitors in its structure to replenish spent kinetic barriers. The transpari-plast armor panel on its top can be removed to access capacitors for field maintenance.

Reduces the delay before shields start regenerating by 10%.

Equalizer Pack Legendary Edition:  Omega Market4,000 credits, or3,333 discounted.


Kestrel Helmet



The Kestrel armor system's helmet forgoes traditional transparent visors in favor of a reinforced faceplate with an internal heads-up display. The display connects to redundant microcameras to allow naturalistic vision, and the helmet's weapon autotargeting and shield software provides a substantial boost to performance.

Increases head shot damage by 5%Increases weapon damage by 3%Increases shields by 3%

Aegis Pack Legendary Edition: Serrice Technology8,000 credits, or 6,666  discounted.

Chest[]


Name

Image

Description

Effects

Acquisition


N7 Chestplate



Interlocking plates of thick, ablative ceramic plates. Designed to be light, effective, and easily repaired.

Increases power damage by 3%.

Initially Available


Aegis Vest



Kassa Fabrication's line of elite personal protection equipment includes a series of interlocking ceramic plates covered in a proprietary tungsten alloy weave for maximum stopping power.

Increases health by 5%.

Rodam Expeditions2,000 credits, or1,666 discounted.


Capacitor Chestplate



Micro wells developed by Armax Arsenal store part of the energy directed at the armor and use it to jump start the kinetic barrier recharge cycle.

Reduces the delay before your shields start regenerating by 10%.

Harrot's Emporium4,000 credits, or3,333 discounted.


Shield Harness



A series of ultra-efficient storage cells designed by Armax Arsenal to augment the existing power in the operation of the wearer's kinetic barrier.

Increases shields by 5%.

Ratch's Wares8,000 credits.6,666 discounted.Note:  Only available after completing the mission Collector Ship. 


Kestrel Torso Sheath



The Kestrel armor system's spinal-mount processor synchronizes artificial torso muscle fibers with limb movements, allowing power to be generated by the legs, channeled through the core, and projected out through the arms. Stabilization of the firing platform assists in autotargeting, and waist-mounted capacitors add to the power of kinetic barriers.

Increases melee damage by 10%Increases weapon damage by 5%Increases shield strength by 3%

Aegis Pack Legendary Edition: Serrice Technology10,000 credits, or8,333 discounted.

Shoulders[]


Name

Image

Description

Effects

Acquisition


N7 Shoulder Guards



Curved shell of ablative ceramic over kinetic padding.

Increases weapon damage by 3%.

Initially Available


Amplifier Plates



Using their expertise in policing dangerous situations with limited assets, Elanus Risk Control Services (ERCS) has created shoulder protection that includes an internal micro-control system to maximize resources.

Increases power damage by 5%.

Gateway Personal Defense2,000 credits, or1,666 discounted.


Asymmetric Defense Layer



Offering increased protection where it's needed most, Rosenkov Materials' proprietary coating process increases stopping power of standard ceramic armor.

Increases health by 5%.

Ratch's Wares8,000 credits, or6,666 discounted.Note:  Only available after completing the mission Collector Ship. 


Strength Boost Pads



Incorporates a series of lightweight beryllium and tungsten braces and micro-servos to support and enhance the natural movements of the wearer. Originally developed by the Sirta Foundation to aid in the primary construction phase of planet settlement, it has since been adapted for more marshal [sic] purposes.

Increases melee damage by 25%.

Omega Market4,000 credits, or3,333discounted.Note:  Only available after completing the mission Horizon. 


Kestrel Shoulder Pieces



The Kestrel armor system's shoulder plates house backup capacitors for shield generation. Artificial muscle fibers based on spider silk reinforce the shoulders, allowing for more powerful movements.

Increases shields by 8%Increases melee damage by 10%

Aegis Pack Legendary Edition: Serrice Technology6,000 credits, or5,000 discounted.

Arms[]


Name

Image

Description

Effects

Acquisition


N7 Gauntlets



A combination of fabric armor with kinetic padding and plates of ablative ceramic for protection.

Increases health by 3%.

Initially Available


Heavy Damping Gauntlets



Armax Arsenal added micro-harmonic oscillators to reduce stress on the kinetic barriers ensuring suit integrity when faced with oncoming projectiles.

Increases shields by 5%.

Ratch's Wares4,000 credits, or3,333 discounted.


Off-Hand Ammo Pack



A simple but popular modification developed by the Elkoss Combine and favored among mercenary groups and military personnel on active assignment.

Increases spare ammo capacity by 10%.

Rodam Expeditions2,000 credits, or1,666 discounted.


Stabilization Gauntlets



Incorporating micro-gyros linked with a hardsuit's internal targeting aids these gauntlets from Aldrin Labs ensure better battlefield performance.

Increases weapon damage by 5%.

Omega Market8,000 credits, or6,666 discounted.Note:  Only available after completing the mission Collector Ship. 


Kestrel Arm Sheathing



Artificial muscle fibers controlled by the Kestrel armor system's central processor allow for both gross motor movements and precision support of the hands. This steadies aim in a manner compatible with most firearm autotargeting systems. Additional capacitors for shield generation are installed on the ulnar side of the forearm.

Increases weapon damage by 3%Increases shields by 3%Increases melee damage by 10%

Aegis Pack Legendary Edition: Serrice Technology6,000 credits, or5,000 discounted.

Legs[]


Name

Image

Description

Effects

Acquisition


N7 Greaves



Dual layer of fabric armor and kinetic padding beneath thick plates of ablative ceramic and lined with additional kinetic barrier emitters.

Increases shield strength by 3%.

Initially Available


Stimulator Conduits



Incorporates a series of beryllium and tungsten braces and micro-servos to support and enhance the natural movements of the wearer for short periods of time. Originally developed by the Sirta Foundation for search and rescue personnel, it has been adapted for military use.

Increases storm speed by 10%.

Omega Market4,000 credits, or3,333 discounted.


Life Support Webbing



Within a wearable framework, the Sirta Foundation developed an innovative net of micro-stimulants and medi-gel in order to increase the chances of survival for aid workers and military personnel working in a hostile environment.

Increases health by 10%.

Sirta Foundation8,000 credits, or6,667 discounted.


Ordnance Packs



Co-developed by the Rahael Group and Beckmann Financial to solve the issue of munitions storage for Heavy Weapon class engagement tools.

Increases spare heavy weapon ammo by 10%.

Harrot's Emporium2,000 credits, or1,666 discounted.Note:  Only available after completing the mission Collector Ship. 


Kestrel Power Pack



The Kestrel armor system's hip-mounted power pack provides emergency energy for kinetic barriers and heavy weapons.

Increases shields by 8%Increases heavy weapon ammo capacity by 5%

Aegis Pack Legendary Edition: Serrice Technology6,000 credits, or5,000 discounted.

Armor Sets[]
Main article: Armor#Mass Effect 2
Casual Outfits[]
The selected casual outfit will be worn by the Commander while onboard the Normandy, as well as on a select few missions that call for discretion.

This list is incomplete. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 

Crewman's outfit, the default wear.Officer's dress.Off-duty Spacer Outfit.Science uniform.Evening wear.Obtained as part of Kasumi - Stolen Memory.

Bugs[]
The Archon Visor is bugged and confers no known benefit to the wearer.
Trivia[]
The Heavy Damping Gauntlets are incorrectly named Stabilization Gauntlets in the store menu of Ratch's Wares, although the item description uses the correct name.
"Kuwashii" (詳しい) can mean "accurate", "detailed", or "precise" in Japanese.[1]
References[]

↑ http://www.romajidesu.com/dictionary/meaning-of-%E8%A9%B3%E3%81%97%E3%81%84.html






Mass Effect 2 Armor




Armor Customization • Armor Upgrades


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Assault Armor • Collector Chitin Armor  Inferno Armor • Terminus Armor • Kestrel Armor




