









Captain Enyala




Race
Asari


Type
Organic, Biotic


Faction
Eclipse


Armament
M-300 Claymore


Abilities
 Warp Barrier Morale Boost


Health
High


Armor
Very High


Barrier
Very High


Locations
Illium


Captain Enyala is an asari commando and a captain in the Eclipse mercenary band on Illium. Commander Shepard encounters her while assisting Miranda on her loyalty mission.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Enyala was hired by Miranda's father to "rescue" his daughter Oriana. She worked with Miranda's friend Niket, who was bribed into betraying Miranda. Niket agrees to work with Enyala, but only as long as he can handle Oriana's transfer, so that there would be no trauma to her adoptive family. When Miranda confronts Niket and threatens to kill him, Shepard can choose to stop her. If Shepard does, then Enyala will kill Niket herself. However, Enyala is killed in the ensuing battle.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Enyala is a Vanguard, and will behave similarly to the Eclipse Vanguard in combat. She wields a M-300 Claymore Heavy Shotgun, in addition to her biotics. If she is at shotgun-ineffective range, she will use her Warp ability to weaken her target before closing in to deal massive damage with her shotgun.
Defensive
She is considered a boss, and thus possesses a strong biotic barrier, is thickly armored, and has a lot of health.

Tactics[]
Being surrounded by her Eclipse allies of varying difficulty and combat style, it is difficult to focus solely on Enyala. Defeating her, especially on higher difficulties, will revolve around forcing her to retreat by dropping her defensive layers in between dispatching her allies. If left unchecked, her allies can quickly kill Shepard's squad while their attention is drawn.
Enyala will more often than not try to close with Shepard and Shepard alone, but occasionally you can get lucky and she decides not to come straight for you.  Even if that happens though, always keep an eye on her so she doesn't sneak up on you unexpectedly.
Stasis is one of the best strategies to use against Enyala; she is not immune to it and will be frozen for the duration and ragdolled after the freeze ends, making her extremely vulnerable to weapon damage and also unable to move or attack.  A level 1 Stasis should be more than sufficient to neutralize her but Enhanced Stasis can be used repeatedly without making her immune.
Anti-barrier powers and weapons such as Warp, Reave, Warp Ammo, and the Geth Plasma Shotgun should be used to drop her barrier and then anti-armor powers and weapons should be used against her armor.  Sniper rifles can be tricky to try to use against her as her Warp can knock you out of scoped mode.
Enyala, like other enemy Vanguards, is capable of regenerating her barrier if left alone so try to kill her before she can do this.  She tends to recharge her barrier only once her armor bar is completely gone.
Once Enyala has only health remaining, disabling abilities such as Throw and Cryo Blast will effectively remove her as a threat.  The challenge is eliminating her armor and barrier before she can close to lethal shotgun range.
Combat Drones can be used to distract her, but she is capable of one-shotting them with her shotgun.
Flashbang Grenade can be used to both stagger Enyala and disable her biotic powers for the duration, even if she's still protected by barriers or armor.  This is useful as Enyala's Warp deals high damage and can stagger you or force you to cover while trying to line up shots on her at range.
Kasumi's Shadow Strike can do massive damage and stagger Enyala, and it also distracts her for a few seconds when Kasumi appears next to her.  The temporary invulnerability granted to Kasumi by the power also makes it useful for saving Kasumi if she's in trouble.
A useful strategy is to immediately head towards the short dead-end hallway to the right of the elevator that you arrived in, eliminate the Vanguard, and place your allies into the cul-de-sac while Shepard stays behind the roughly L-shaped cover straight ahead coming out of the elevator.  This positioning allows you to keep most enemies at bay, allowing you to focus on Enyala without being flanked.
A simple solution for low difficulties is to fire a shot from the Cain in her vicinity, resulting in an instant kill.  The M-490 Blackstorm can work similarly well without massive overkill and over-expenditure of ammo, with the added bonus that while the Singularity projectile is active and building towards detonation, Enyala will be chain stunned and take incremental damage as well.
Trivia[]
Using Dominate on Captain Enyala elicits a unique response: she can clearly be heard saying "I'm sorry, sister" each time she is forced to turn on her fellow Eclipse.
Enyala can also sometimes be heard telling her troops "Remember, Lawson is mine."


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




