









Captain Wasea




Race
Asari


Type
Organic, Biotic


Faction
Eclipse


Armament
M-300 Claymore


Abilities
 Warp Barrier Morale Boost


Health
Moderate


Armor
High


Barrier
High


Locations
Illium


Captain Wasea is an asari commando and the leader of an Eclipse cadre on Illium. 






“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Commander Shepard encounters her in an Eclipse hideout while helping Samara track down the name of a ship used by the gang to smuggle Samara's target off world, whom the captain refers to as a "filthy creature". Annoyed at the intrusion, Wasea sets down her drink and rants about her disrupted operations caused by the involvement of the Commander and the justicar. However, she still relishes the opportunity to pulp some heads and vents out her frustrations at Shepard. She is killed in the following firefight. During the fight, Wasea can cryptically warn Shepard that helping the justicar means involving themselves in something terrifying.
Under Wasea's leadership, the Eclipse experimented on Niftu Cal, injecting him with so many drugs he began exhibiting biotic powers. If Shepard "encouraged" the volus to fight her, Niftu flings a biotic attack that fizzles out in her face. Wasea retaliates with a much more powerful one that sends the volus flying into irrelevance before facing Shepard's squad, the actual combatants.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Wasea is armed with the top of the line M-300 Claymore Heavy Shotgun and uses Warp. She will also use her biotics to fling the crates of Minagen around the room, which obscures visibility and may render cover inadvisable.

Defensive
Wasea has strong armor and biotic barriers, as well as moderate health. She can completely restore her barriers once they are depleted, but she will only do this once her armor bar is also depleted.

Tactics[]
Despite being a captain, she is no more difficult to handle in combat than an average Eclipse Commando. However, this is exacerbated somewhat by the presence of the biotic-enhancing toxin Wasea hurls about, she uses these to control the battlefield; move to different locations when necessary to avoid being poisoned. Biotic characters can take advantage of the temporary power increase to decimate Wasea and her squad. Various powers can also be used to burst the canisters before being thrown or mid-flight to remove them as a threat.
At a certain point in the fight she will biotically lift the large crates behind her desk and retreat further back in the room. Any Eclipse mercs still alive will follow her and a few more will show up in the back right corner of the newly opened area. It is possible to kill her before this happens, however.
Overwhelming Wasea right off the bat, before her back-up arrives, is best. Hit her with Warp, Warp Ammo, Reave or Incinerate then use Pull when she's unprotected. If Wasea dies, it stops the spawning of more Eclipse soldiers and prevents the battle from moving into the back room. Take advantage of the Minagen to hit Wasea with amped-up biotics, then finish her quickly.
Flashbang Grenade can disable her biotic abilities, making her much less of a threat for about 40 seconds, which should be more than enough time to dispatch her. This also prevents her from throwing around the Minagen canisters, or restoring her depleted barrier.
Trivia[]
Captain Wasea is voiced by Gwendoline Yeo.
Unlike other members of Eclipse, Wasea's armor sports no Eclipse logos and is colored dark blue and red, instead of yellow and black.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




