









Captain Narom




Race
Human


Type
Organic, Tech


Faction
Blue Suns


Armament
M-76 Revenant


Abilities
 Tech Armor


Health
High


Armor
High


Shields
High


Locations
Sanctum


Captain Narom is a Blue Suns mercenary and commander of the base on Sanctum.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Narom's base sent out a false signal to mercantile freighters, enabling the Blue Suns to ambush the ships and steal their cargo.
After an ExoGeni research team discovered a Prothean artifact on Joab, they contacted Narom's commanding officer, Vido Santiago, requesting safe transportation. Narom agreed with Santiago's assessment that the artifact itself was far more valuable, and when the ExoGeni representative arrived to discuss the arrangement with Narom, Narom used the threat of torture obtain the location of the dig site, but was surprised when the representative folded under minimal pressure.
Eventually, Narom's operation is discovered by Cerberus Command, and a three-man team led by Commander Shepard attacks the base. Narom is killed in the ensuing battle.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Captain Narom is armed with the M-76 Revenant.
Defensive
Narom has strong shielding and armor, high health, and can use Tech Armor to restore his shields.

Tactics[]
Narom comes with a group of Blue Suns, but not until the two YMIR Mechs have been neutralized. Move quickly to cover once the mechs are down, as Narom will come out firing.
Destroy the cover on his side of the room and fall back to prevent his buddies from flanking.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




