




Casbin

Region
Milky Way / Armstrong Nebula / Hong





Planet View


Orbital Period
1.1 Earth Years


Radius
7,819 km


Day Length
44.6 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
1.1 atm


Surface Temp
99 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.1 g


Mass
1.641 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Armstrong Nebula / Hong System /  Second planet

Contents

1 Description
2 Assignments
3 Points of Interest
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Lifeforms
6 Properties
7 Trivia


Description[]
Casbin is a classic "pre-garden" terrestrial world, with conditions similar to those on Earth millions of years ago. Its hot, humid atmosphere is mainly composed of nitrogen and carbon dioxide. An increasing amount of the surface is covered by simple lichen and algae. Should no unexpected calamity occur, these tiny plants will change the atmosphere to an Earth-like nitrogen-oxygen mix over the next few millennia.
Due to its potential for future habitability and sapient life, Casbin has been designated a Sanctuary World by the Citadel Council. Landing is prohibited by law, and any disturbance of the fragile young ecosystem will result in harsh fines and imprisonment.
At present, the planet is passing through the debris trail of a long-period comet.

Assignments[]
Assignment: UNC: Geth Incursions
Collection: UNC: Locate Signs of Battle: Salarian ID Tag ×1 (Captain Thein)
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals: Heavy Metal ×1 /  Rare Element ×2
Points of Interest[]



Location

Appearance

Description


1

Initial

Geth outpost (UNC: Geth Incursions)


2

Initial

Geth encampment. Guarded by 3 Geth Heavy Turrets.
  
“The geth array is transmitting regular data bursts on an encrypted channel, using the Alliance's own FTL comm buoys. It's not clear where the data is being directed, nor the content of the signal.”




3

Initial

Crashed probe (can be salvaged with any Electronics skill.)


4

Initial

Beacon (UNC: Locate Signs of Battle)
  
“Buried under the beacon was an identification tag for Captain Thein.  There's no indication of why it was hidden here, or who buried it in the first place.”




Mineral Deposits[]

Main article: UNC: Valuable Minerals


Location

Element

Class


1

Gold

Heavy


2

Samarium

Rare


3

Uranium

Rare


Lifeforms[]
Geth Armature
Geth Dropship
Geth Rocket Trooper
Geth Shock Trooper
Geth Sniper
Properties[]
Most of Casbin's points of interest are in rough mountainous terrain, although the low-lying areas are relatively flat. The samarium deposit east of the Mako's landing zone in particular is situated atop a sheer wall and exceedingly difficult to reach by straight climbing; ascending the mountain due northeast and then backtracking to the deposit is probably less time-consuming.

Trivia[]
Casbin may have been named after a provincial capital of Iran.
The author of this planetary codex may be referring to Earth's Proterozoic Era when free oxygen increased leading to oxygenation of the atmosphere. This event occurred over a billion years ago.
The second point of interest interestingly remains a question mark in some playthroughs even after clearing the area of geth. There are no visible methods of interaction on the place and remains labeled "Anomalous Signal" even after scouring the planet of anything worthwhile. This is addressed in the Legendary Edition release and now you can turn off the signal by interacting with a console.
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition, Casbin's terrain now features 3D grass carpeting instead of plain green textures.



