









Cathka
Blue Suns Sergeant

Race
Batarian


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect 2


Sergeant Cathka is a male batarian who is employed by the Blue Suns as a mechanic on Omega. Technically he is part of the infiltration group during the operation to take down Archangel, but his team coordinates with the gunship which is presently out of commission. Cathka hangs back to take charge of gunship repairs as well as organizing the freelancers hired by the gangs for the assault.






“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




During the mission to recruit Archangel, Commander Shepard meets the Sergeant at the gunship hangar near the third barricade. Cathka recognizes the Commander's team, for Salkie radioed earlier to note this particular group stands out from most of the other freelancers. The Commander can ask him questions about the mission, which Cathka willingly obliges to explain at length, taking a cigarette break from the repairs while doing so. He is upfront with the fact that the freelancers are expendable distractions, but he assures Shepard that the infiltration team will do its part if the freelancers do theirs. 
Cathka knows the basics of the overall plan: send the freelancers to distract Archangel, while the infiltration team either sneaks in to kill Archangel in close quarters or rigs his place with explosives. The bridge is the only way in unless the infiltrators get through the blocked tunnels leading to Archangel's base or the gunship becomes operational again, which will be flown by his leader Tarak. Cathka doesn't have time for "great ideas" from freelancers as he feels the Blue Suns' plan is solid.
Eventually the call is made to send in the next wave of freelancers. Cathka responds and directs the group of freelancers with him, musing Archangel's in for a surprise, which further means he should get back to work. Shepard spots a sparking tool and can incapacitate Cathka with it, preventing the mechanic from completing repairs.




