






This article is about a particular Cerberus Armor variant in Mass Effect series. For disambiguation, see Cerberus Armor. For armor in general, see Armor.



Cerberus Ajax Armor






Effects
+25% Ammo Capacity+10% Weapon Damage+10% Power Damage+10% Shield Regen Speed+25% Shields


Availability
Alternate Appearance Pack 1



The Cerberus Ajax Armor is a set of armor in Mass Effect 3, available as part of the Alternate Appearance Pack 1 downloadable content pack. It increases shields, weapon damage, power damage, and ammo capacity.

Contents

1 Description
2 Acquisition
3 Player Notes
4 Trivia


Description[]
Among Cerberus soldiers, Ajax armor is favored by those brave or unlucky enough to lead charges to break enemy formations. Its role is to keep the wearer standing and shooting as long as possible. It offers some benefit to omni-tool and biotic amp systems, but its main emphasis is boosting and recharging its kinetic barrier and bleeding off weapon heat through coolant circulation in its gloves. Due to the high-risk tactics associated with the armor, the Alliance has captured very few suits in perfect condition.

Acquisition[]
The armor is included in the Alternate Appearance Pack 1 downloadable content pack for Mass Effect 3.
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition it is available to equip once Commander Shepard returns to the Normandy SR-2 following Priority: The Citadel I.

Player Notes[]
The Ajax Armor is ideally suited for players who want to combine extra shield resilience with the increased firepower that boosts to ammo-carrying capacity, weapon damage, and power damage can grant.
The N7 Defender Armor set is rendered mostly obsolete: whereas a 10% Health Boost is its only advantage, the Ajax offers equal or greater Ammo Capacity, Weapon Damage and Shields, along with granting Power Damage and Shield Regen Speed (which the N7 Defender Armor lacks).
Weapon-dependent classes may prefer Cerberus Nightmare Armor set and combinations with higher ammo bonuses if they eschew relying on powers in combat.
Power-dependent classes may prefer Cerberus Spirit Armor or Cerberus Shade Armor sets and combinations with higher shield bonuses if they eschew relying on weapons in combat.
The Cerberus Ajax Armor, Cerberus Nightmare Armor, Cerberus Shade Armor and Cerberus Spirit Armor armors sets. Their combined bonuses total 80%, while most full-body armors offer 60% bonuses, and individual armor pieces give a maximum of 65%.
Trivia[]
The male version of this armor set, albeit without Cerberus insignia and colors, appears identical to an alternate outfit for Kaidan Alenko and James Vega. The female version is used in multiplayer by the N7 Demolisher Engineer.
All of the armor, minus the helmet, is similar to a Cerberus Combat Engineer.




Mass Effect 3 Armor




Armor Customization


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Ajax Armor • Cerberus Armor • Cerberus Nightmare ArmorCerberus Shade Armor • Cerberus Spirit Armor • Collector Armor • Inferno Armor • N7 Defender ArmorReckoner Knight Armor • Terminus Assault Armor





Mass Effect 3 Downloadable Content




Promotional

AT-12 Raider • Chakram Launcher • Collector Rifle • M-55 Argus  M-90 Indra • N7 Collector's Edition Pack • N7 Warfare Gear • Reckoner Knight Armor


Single-Player

From Ashes • Extended Cut • Firefight Pack • Leviathan • Groundside Resistance Pack  Alternate Appearance Pack 1 • Omega • Citadel • Genesis 2


Multiplayer

Online Pass • Resurgence Pack • Rebellion Pack • Earth • Retaliation • Reckoning




