






This article is about a particular Cerberus Armor variant in Mass Effect series. For disambiguation, see Cerberus Armor. For armor in general, see Armor.



Cerberus Shade Armor





							Male
							
						



							Female
							
						



















Effects
+10% Melee Damage+10% Ammo Capacity+10% Weapon Damage+10% Power Damage+20% Shield Regen Speed+20% Shields


Availability
Mass Effect 3: Citadel



The Cerberus Shade Armor is a set of armor in Mass Effect 3, available by completing an Armax Arsenal Arena challenge in Mass Effect 3: Citadel. It increases shields, melee damage, weapon damage, power damage, and ammo capacity.

Contents

1 Description
2 Acquisition
3 E-mail: Thanks for breaking the scoreboard
4 Player Notes
5 Trivia


Description[]
Cerberus Shade armor is worn by Phantoms who need to be prepared for a wide variety of threats. Its capacitors give modest boosts to shields and shield regeneration time. Many small improvements increase the performance of biotic amps and omni-tools, heat management and kinetic coils for ranged weapons, and synthetic muscle assistors for melee capability.

Acquisition[]
With Mass Effect 3: Citadel installed, achieve over 9,999 points in the Armax Arsenal Arena. The armor will be offered as a reward in an email, along with the Cerberus Nightmare Armor and Cerberus Spirit Armor. After the email is read, the armor will be located next to the machines for the bronze, silver and gold tokens. Only one armor set can be chosen, and this choice carries across additional playthroughs with the same character.

E-mail: Thanks for breaking the scoreboard[]




From: AAA Information Technology Dept.

Commander Shepard,

When I heard you broke the scoreboard, I thought you had discovered another bug. But I watched the replay of your fight and I was left awestruck. In testing, we had a team of krogan battlemasters trying to reach 10,000 points, but they never could. Somehow you did it. It'll take a while for us to rewrite our systems to support higher scores, but it was worth it to see someone do the impossible.

I spoke with our management to try to provide you with some merchandise--it turns out we weren't budgeted for it this year, but we actually had some suits of armor captured during the attack on the Citadel. Research and Design are done with them, and now they need a good home. What would you say to a Cerberus Phantom's armor?

Thanks for playing, Commander. We hope you had as much fun we did.

Virginia Ruojian
Principal Systems Administrator

Armax Arsenal Arena


Player Notes[]
This armor is arguably the best melee-focused Vanguard/Soldier/Sentinel set in the game when initially available due to the Shield, Melee Damage, Weapon Damage, Power Damage and Ammo boosts given.
The Collector Armor set is rendered obsolete: whereas a 20% Health Boost is its only advantage, the Shade offers equal or greater Shield Strength and Shield Regen Speed; in addition to granting Ammo Capacity, Melee Damage, Weapon Damage, and Power Damage (which it lacks).
The Cerberus Ajax Armor, Cerberus Nightmare Armor, Cerberus Shade Armor and Cerberus Spirit Armor armors sets. Their combined bonuses total 80%, while most full-body armors offer 60% bonuses, and individual armor pieces give a maximum of 65%.
The fastest way to get this armor is to set the Combat Difficulty on Narrative. You still get the same amount of Score Points.
Trivia[]
The male version of this armor is identical to Kai Leng's outfit, except he does not wear a helmet. It is also used by the N7 Slayer Vanguard, though with N7 colors and logos, in multiplayer. The female version is identical to that of N7 Shadow Infiltrator.
This armor is identical in appearance to its counterparts, the Cerberus Nightmare Armor and the Cerberus Spirit Armor. In Mass Effect Legendary Edition all three sets differ slightly in appearance from the original game, most notably by having dark-colored face shields as opposed to gold.




Mass Effect 3 Armor




Armor Customization


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Ajax Armor • Cerberus Armor • Cerberus Nightmare ArmorCerberus Shade Armor • Cerberus Spirit Armor • Collector Armor • Inferno Armor • N7 Defender ArmorReckoner Knight Armor • Terminus Assault Armor





Mass Effect 3 Downloadable Content




Promotional

AT-12 Raider • Chakram Launcher • Collector Rifle • M-55 Argus  M-90 Indra • N7 Collector's Edition Pack • N7 Warfare Gear • Reckoner Knight Armor


Single-Player

From Ashes • Extended Cut • Firefight Pack • Leviathan • Groundside Resistance Pack  Alternate Appearance Pack 1 • Omega • Citadel • Genesis 2


Multiplayer

Online Pass • Resurgence Pack • Rebellion Pack • Earth • Retaliation • Reckoning




