







The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

Cerberus Brainchild (also known internally as DLC_AI) was a major assignment and planned DLC for Mass Effect which was cut during development. It would involve an AI which performs genetic experiments that have gone out of hand, and would serve as the first encounter with Cerberus' leader, the Illusive Man.

Plotline[]
The assignment would start with Commander Shepard investigating a seemingly abandoned ship drifting through space, the MCV Taenerum. On board, several dead soldiers could be found wearing Cerberus armor, making it clear who the ship belongs to. Soon after, Shepard's squad would come across "krogan cyborgs" and defeat them. After further exploring the ship, Shepard could either find certain coordinates from Captain Gannon or listen to the captain's log, both of which would point to the nearby planet Tuoni.
At this point, Shepard would link up with an Alliance spy going by the name of Chiara Rossi. She appears worried by the mention of krogan cyborgs, but her main concern is the rumor of an AI operating within the system. Next, Shepard would need to trace four or five transmitter signals to pinpoint the location of the hidden Cerberus facility in which the AI operates. It appears to be located on the planet's moon, so Shepard's crew heads there after contacting Chiara again.
Eventually, Shepard would come "face to face" with the AI and talk with it. It reveals that it was responsible for creating the krogan cyborgs at Cerberus' behest, and requests that the Commander destroys it. Shepard would thus have a choice: destroy the AI's blue box like it requested, effectively "killing" it, or take the blue box and deliver it to Chiara to have it analyzed by the Alliance. Before leaving the facility however, Shepard comes into contact with the Illusive Man, but manages to escape nonetheless.
In the aftermath, if Shepard destroyed the AI, Chiara Rossi promises to relay the uncovered information back to the Alliance. If its blue box was handed to her, then she hopes the Alliance will be able to use it to find out more about other Cerberus plans.

Trivia[]
This assignment's plot points bear resemblance with several Mass Effect content pieces developed later:
Mass Effect: Infiltrator since it also involves a Cerberus-made krogan cyborg;
Mass Effect 2 DLC Overlord given the general premise of investigating a Cerberus facility where AI experiments have got out of control;
Mass Effect Andromeda: Initiation which also involves AI-engineered cyborg creatures.
Data-mining uncovered text strings relating to an achievement for completing this DLC: "Cerberus Hunter", whose description reads: "Requirement: Complete the investigation into the Cerberus group."
References[]
Plot Database: LE1.DLC_PRC_1B.PRC_AI
Mass Effect Cut Content/Miscellaneous Texts#Cerberus_Brainchild



