






This article is about a particular Cerberus Armor variant in the Mass Effect series. For disambiguation, see Cerberus Armor. For armor in general, see Armor.

The Cerberus Assault Armor (Cerberus Armor in Mass Effect 3) is a non-customizable armor in Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3. 

Contents

1 Mass Effect 2

1.1 Description
1.2 Acquisition
1.3 Player Notes


2 Mass Effect 3

2.1 Description
2.2 Acquisition
2.3 Player Notes


3 Trivia


Mass Effect 2[]


Cerberus Assault Armor






Effects
+10% Heavy Weapon Ammo Capacity+10% Shield Strength+10% Health


Starting Health
220


Starting Shields
275


Availability
Cerberus Network



Description[]
Cerberus assault armor is designed for shock troops, who are expected to turn the tide of battle against creatures or forces that would decimate normal soldiers. The troops demanded three things in its design: shields and armor thick enough to last against a superior foe, and a rechargeable pack to extend a heavy weapon power cell. The only drawback of the armor is its weight, which the troops carry as a point of pride. They have a saying: "Out of shape going in, in shape coming out."
Increases heavy weapon ammo capacity by +10%
Increases shields by +10%
Increases health by +10%

Acquisition[]
The armor was made available as free downloadable content through the Cerberus Network on February 9, 2010 for Mass Effect 2.
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition it can be researched in the Normandy's Tech Lab at a cost of 5000 Palladium.
The item has an accompanying e-mail message for confirmation of availability.




From: Illusive ManShepard,


Our armor technicians heard you were back in action and insisted that you should be appropriately equipped. They put together a package that I had delivered to the Normandy - you'll find it in your personal quarters. Fortunately, we know your size.


Player Notes[]
This armor is considered a good choice on the Insanity difficulty because of the health and shield boosts it provides.
Mass Effect 3[]


Cerberus Armor






Effects
+10% Ammo Capacity+20% Weapon Damage+10% Shields+20% Health


Availability
Elkoss Combine Arsenal Supplies



Description[]
Cerberus assault armor is designed for shock troops, who are expected to turn the tide of battle against creatures or forces that would decimate normal soldiers. The troops demanded three things in its design: shields and armor thick enough to last against a superior foe, and compartments for extra thermal clips. The only drawback of the armor is its weight, which the troops carry as a point of pride. They have a saying: "Out of shape going in, in shape coming out."

Acquisition[]
The Cerberus Armor can be purchased at Elkoss Combine Arsenal Supplies in the Presidium Commons for 50,000 credits without discounts, or through the procurement terminals located in the Normandy's shuttle bay or Armax Arsenal Arena for 55,000 credits without discounts.

Player Notes[]
Due to initial availability, this armor set may hold value for Soldiers.
To a lesser extent, Infiltrators may also find it useful, though the defensive boosts are somewhat wasted, as Infiltrators are often invisible to enemies.

Trivia[]
The Cerberus Armor is available for download on the Xbox Avatar Marketplace for $3.99.




Mass Effect 2 Armor




Armor Customization • Armor Upgrades


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Assault Armor • Collector Chitin Armor  Inferno Armor • Terminus Armor • Kestrel Armor





Mass Effect 2 Downloadable Content




Promotional

Blood Dragon Armor • Collectors' Weapon and Armor • Inferno Armor  M-29 Incisor Sniper Rifle • Terminus Weapon and Armor


Cerberus Network

Zaeed - The Price of Revenge • Normandy Crash Site  Cerberus Weapon and Armor • Arc Projector • Firewalker Pack


Missions

Kasumi - Stolen Memory • Overlord • Lair of the Shadow Broker • Arrival


Additional Content

Alternate Appearance Packs •  Equalizer Pack • Aegis Pack • Firepower Pack  Mass Effect: Genesis • Recon Operations Pack • N7 Complete Arsenal Bundle





Mass Effect 3 Armor




Armor Customization


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Ajax Armor • Cerberus Armor • Cerberus Nightmare ArmorCerberus Shade Armor • Cerberus Spirit Armor • Collector Armor • Inferno Armor • N7 Defender ArmorReckoner Knight Armor • Terminus Assault Armor




