






This article is about  the enemy from Mass Effect 2. For the page about the Cerberus turret from Mass Effect 3, see Turret (Mass Effect 3).








Cerberus Turret




Type
Turret


Faction
Cerberus


Armament
Mass Accelerator Machine Gun


Abilities
None


Armor
High


Locations
Aite


Cerberus Turrets are used by Cerberus to defend key locations and installations.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Cerberus Turrets were installed on Aite to defend key locations for Project Overlord, a project run by Cerberus to create a VI capable of exploiting the geth's religious beliefs to gain control over them. The turrets are mainly positioned on the approaches to Vulcan Station and at small outposts around the planet.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Cerberus Turrets are armed with a Mass Accelerator Machine Gun that can destroy the Hammerhead after just a few seconds of sustained combat.
Defensive
Cerberus Turrets are equipped with only armor for defenses.

Tactics[]
Because they don't pop up until you get close, and they go down when you get too far away, you can use that to your advantage if you need to retreat. However, it is also a disadvantage because you can't target them at a distance. Also be aware that, because they can shred the Hammerhead in a just a few seconds, sustained combat isn't recommended. Keep at a distance and move in and out of their engagement range as you need to.
You will need to modify your tactics a little based on where you are fighting and where the Turrets are located.
A solid tactic on all difficulties for most turrets is to pop up and fire at the top of the boost and then drop back behind cover while the turret(s) harmlessly try to shoot the Hammerhead through the ground.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




