




Cernunnos

Region
Milky Way / Caleston Rift / Balor





Planet View


Orbital Distance
0.07 AU


Orbital Period
31 Earth Days


Radius
49,231 km


Day Length
17 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.86 atm


Satellites
> 1


Location: Milky Way / Caleston Rift / Balor System /  First planet

Prerequisite: Collector Ship (mission) or Project Firewalker: Rosalie Lost (Mass Effect 2)

Prerequisite: Mass Effect 3: Leviathan (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description

1.1 Mass Effect 2
1.2 Mass Effect 3


2 Mineral Deposits
3 Trivia


Description[]
Mass Effect 2[]
Cernunnos is a sizable gas giant with a hydrogen-nitrogen atmosphere. It is believed to be an extrasolar capture due to its close stellar location. In a rare phenomenon, it is near enough to its red dwarf star to be within the life zone, though its massive size prevents the tidal lock that usually occurs at such a range. While nothing could survive on the surface of a planet with such crushing gravity, Cernunnos' moon Caleston is habitable. Cernunnos is skimmed for its abundant hydrogen, and refineries on Caleston process it into a metastable metallic form for use as starship fuel.

Mass Effect 3[]
Cernunnos is a sizable gas giant with high nitrogen content. It is believed to be an extrasolar capture due to its close stellar location. In a rare phenomenon, it is near enough to its red dwarf star to be within the life zone, although its massive size prevents the tidal lock that usually occurs at this range.
While nothing could survive on the surface of a planet with such crushing gravity, Cernunnos' moon, Caleston, has life. Cernunnos was skimmed for its abundant hydrogen, and refineries on Caleston processed it into a metastable metallic form for use as starship fuel. The Reapers have since destroyed this operation.

Mineral Deposits[]
Initial Scanner Result: Moderate



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

Low

1,700


Platinum

Low

4,200


Iridium

Low

4,000


Element Zero

None

0

Trivia[]
Cernunnos may be named for the Celtic god Cernunnos.



