









Chakram Launcher





								Single-player
							





Type
Assault Rifle


Location
Bonus ItemOmega: Aria T'Loak


Fire Mode
Charged Semi-Automatic



Weight
  70% 


Capacity
  22% 


Fire Rate
  12% 


Damage
  50% 


Accuracy
  75% 




Ammunition


Clip Size
Reserve




4
40







The Chakram Launcher is an assault rifle in Mass Effect 3.

Description[]
The fancifully named Chakram Launcher uses an internal fabricator to manufacture lightweight ammunition discs wrapped in holographic tracers. The discs explode on impact, sending shrapnel tearing through the enemy. Markings stamped on the gun's barrel are a shipping code created by its manufacturer, Ama-Lur Equipment. The code warns that the rifle must be assembled carefully, as it contains mixtures extremely volatile under pressure. This is why the Chakram Launcher requires thermal clips: without a way to dissipate the intense heat caused by its fabrication process, the rifle's circuitry would quickly destroy itself in a spectacularly lethal meltdown.

Acquisition[]
Single-player
The Chakram Launcher is a bonus item that can be obtained by playing the Kingdoms of Amalur demo with the same EA/BioWare account where Mass Effect 3 is installed. An e-mail from Liara T'Soni can be received if the weapon is obtained in this fashion.




An Experimental Rifle


From: Liara T'Soni

Shepard: An agent of mine smuggled a crate of experimental weapons out of Ama-Lur Equipment's research and development complex. The most promising appears to be the Chakram Launcher. It's a rifle that fires explosive ammunition. A number of the prototypes have been delivered to the Normandy. It will be interesting to see what they can do.


Liara



The gun is also available in Mass Effect 3: Omega (included in Legendary Edition), and can be found during The Mines segment of the mission. It can also be purchased as a single weapon upgrade level at the Spectre Requisitions terminal for 7,000 credits; this upgrade will be available regardless of whether the weapon was already obtained.

Multiplayer
The Chakram Launcher is available to players who have completed the Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning demo in 2012. It is categorized as rare.

Player Notes[]
GeneralSingle-playerMultiplayer
General
The Chakram Launcher fires explosive discs instead of standard bullets. The discs do some damage on impact before exploding for more damage, and are able to stun light targets both upon initial impact (primary target only) and upon detonation.
The discs can be charged up, increasing the damage of both the initial impact and the explosion, relative to how long the shot was charged, up to a 3x damage bonus. As is usual to charged weapons, it becomes fully charged slightly before the tone of the charging sound peaks. A clicking sound and a glow around the weapon indicate that the charging process is complete.
As with most weapons that fire explosive rounds, the Chakram Launcher's discs suffer no damage penalty against enemy armor, but they can't penetrate solid objects or deal bonus headshot/weakpoint damage. However, they are able to punch straight through the handheld shields of Guardians and CAT6 Heavies, making it very effective against them.
As with most weapons with a charged-shot feature, charging shots while crouched behind low cover is problematic due to the tendency to pop out while the trigger is held.
The Chakram Launcher is very comparable in damage and effect to the Scorpion heavy pistol, with the same clip size and projectiles that behave much the same way. If you're familiar with the Scorpion, that will give you a general idea of what to expect from the Chakram Launcher. However, there are some differences:
The Chakram Launcher's shots deal some damage immediately on impact, unlike the Scorpion's which do not; it also can carry much more reserve ammunition.
Being an assault rifle, it can also equip mods that aren't available for the Scorpion, such as the Assault Rifle Thermal Scope for seeing through walls and smoke. The converse is also true; the Scorpion is lighter and can use unique pistol mods such as the Pistol Power Magnifier.
The charged-shot feature gives the Chakram Launcher extra punch over the Scorpion, though charging shots slows firing rate.
Chakram Launcher projectiles can be fired into terrain and deal damage to nearby enemies when they detonate, but they do not possess the proximity detonation feature of Scorpion rounds.
As with other weapons that can be charged, Infiltrators can begin charging the Chakram Launcher prior to activating Tactical Cloak. They can then fire the charged disc without deactivating the Tactical Cloak. Beginning to charge while the cloak is activated will deactivate the cloak.
Single-player
As with most other weapons that can be charged, squadmates do not use the feature and fire only uncharged shots. Squadmates also do not lead their targets and thus they will usually miss moving opponents when firing non-hitscan weapons, though the stunning effects of the weapon can still make it a useful support tool in their hands.
When you use the flashlight (automatically activated in dark areas), charging the Chakram Launcher will significantly increase the amount of light as long as it is charging. When searching for objects in dark areas without enemies, keep the Chakram charged.
Multiplayer
The Chakram Launcher counts as a non-DLC weapon for the purposes of the power cooldown weapon mod glitch.
Trivia[]
The Chakram Launcher was designed by Todd McFarlane, creator of Spawn. Its color scheme of black, red, and white references that character. [1] McFarlane was also credited as Executive Art Director on the Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning game that the Chakram concept references.[2]
The name of the manufacturer, "Ama-lur Equipment" is a pun referencing the game with which Mass Effect 3 shared the crossover promotion, "Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning". Chakrams featured as a powerful weapon in the game.
The Chakram Launcher was initially available after completing the Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning demo, including the tutorial quest and the subsequent 45 minutes of free play time. This required linking an EA/BioWare account to the game to register the promotions. PlayStation 3 owners needed to download and play the Amalur demo before playing Mass Effect 3. EA has now stopped supporting the KoA:R Demo and has shut down its servers so the Chakram Launcher can't be obtained from this method anymore.
A chakram is a circular throwing weapon in the shape of a flat metal ring and used in a manner similar to a frisbee.
The Chakram Launcher does not show the Assault Rifle Precision Scope or Assault Rifle Extended Barrel weapon mods attached to the weapon when the mods are applied. The effects are still applied however, and other mods that affect colors still affect the Chakram Launcher's colors.
The in-game image for the Chakram Launcher on the loadout screen depicts it as having red colored parts at the front of the weapon. The part on the actual weapon is not colored when using it. Adding the Assault Rifle Magazine Upgrade mod will change the color of this part.
See Also[]
Reckoner Knight Armor: An armor set also obtainable by playing the Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning demo.
References[]

↑ http://investor.ea.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=638555

↑ https://www.mobygames.com/game/windows/kingdoms-of-amalur-reckoning/credits




Mass Effect 3 Weapons


Heavy Pistols

M-3 Predator • M-5 Phalanx • M-6 Carnifex • M-11 Suppressor • M-77 Paladin • M-358 Talon • Acolyte • Arc Pistol • Executioner Pistol • N7 Eagle • Scorpion


Submachine Guns

M-4 Shuriken • M-9 Tempest • M-12 Locust • M-25 Hornet • Blood Pack Punisher  Collector SMG • Geth Plasma SMG • N7 Hurricane


Shotguns

M-11 Wraith • M-22 Eviscerator • M-23 Katana • M-27 Scimitar • M-300 Claymore • AT-12 Raider • Disciple • Geth Plasma Shotgun • Graal Spike Thrower • N7 Crusader • N7 Piranha • Reegar Carbine • Venom Shotgun


Assault Rifles

M-7 Lancer • M-8 Avenger • M-15 Vindicator • M-37 Falcon • M-55 Argus • M-76 Revenant • M-96 Mattock • M-99 Saber • Adas Anti-Synthetic Rifle • Cerberus Harrier • Chakram Launcher • Collector Rifle • Geth Pulse Rifle • Geth Spitfire • N7 Typhoon • N7 Valkyrie • Particle Rifle • Phaeston • Striker Assault Rifle


Sniper Rifles

M-13 Raptor • M-29 Incisor • M-90 Indra • M-92 Mantis • M-97 Viper • M-98 Widow • Black Widow • Collector Sniper Rifle • Javelin • Kishock Harpoon Gun • Krysae Sniper Rifle • N7 Valiant


Heavy Weapons

M-451 Firestorm • M-560 Hydra • M-597 Ladon • M-920 Cain • Cobra Missile Launcher • Geth Combat Software • Geth Spitfire • Reaper Blackstar • Sync Laser





Mass Effect 3 Downloadable Content




Promotional

AT-12 Raider • Chakram Launcher • Collector Rifle • M-55 Argus  M-90 Indra • N7 Collector's Edition Pack • N7 Warfare Gear • Reckoner Knight Armor


Single-Player

From Ashes • Extended Cut • Firefight Pack • Leviathan • Groundside Resistance Pack  Alternate Appearance Pack 1 • Omega • Citadel • Genesis 2


Multiplayer

Online Pass • Resurgence Pack • Rebellion Pack • Earth • Retaliation • Reckoning




