


Charybdis Point is a hostel in Sulfur Springs, northeast from the local Remnant monolith. It offers food, lodging, and filtered water: all considered serious amenities on Kadara.
The hostel is run by Mallox, who claims the name came from human mythology. It purports to offer clean beds, but scans of the bunks reveal sheets that haven't been changed for months and cross-species coital activities between angara/asari and turians/humans. There are no private rooms, and privacy requests will be fulfilled by simply putting up another sheet. Rent doesn't cover food and water, and they cost extra. The hostel has a few other house rules that can be accessed from a terminal.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Vehn Terev buried the transponder he used to communicate with the kett beneath the hostel. Pathfinder Ryder retrieves it in order to locate the Archon's ship.
A resident named Zear is murdered within the premises. Reyes Vidal becomes aware of his death and suspects the Roekaar are to blame, and he may send Ryder to investigate the scene.
A daar in Kurinth's Valley perished due to poisoned water. Evidence leads to Charybdis Point, where it's discovered that Mallox's crew stole the daar's water filter designs and tampered with the existing ones, consigning the residents to a slow death. Should Ryder take action, Mallox dies in the resulting firefight, leaving Charybdis Point abandoned.

Contents

1 Layout
2 Residents
3 Missions
4 Datapads
5 Terminals


Layout[]
Charybdis Point consists of two buildings: a single-story prefab with a spacious lounge, a double-decker, and kitchen space, and a two-story building consisting of a utility room in the first floor and the hostel proper in the second. The buildings are on stilts and require stairs to reach the main levels.
There are about 3 iridium and 2 lithium nodes in the general vicinity.

Residents[]
Mallox
Zear
Missions[]



Priority Ops
Hunting the Archon


Heleus Assignments
A People Divided
Something in the Water

Datapads[]



Evacuation Notice
With the recent reports of toxic water supply in the badlands, the plans for large-scale settlement have been canceled. Instead, this area will be sealed off and converted to a penal colony. You'll be considered a permanent resident of the territory and won't be allowed back in.


Sloane Kelly







Personal Log: Zear
New entry: More mines went missing. Damn scavs. Not gonna bother putting them out anymore. It was just a stupid precaution anyway. If someone's got the quads to take me head on, I welcome the challenge.


END LOG







About Semaj
Reilly: 

Keep an eye on him. He's been complaining about you-know-what and I don't want you-know-who finding out. Remind him of the oath and if he disregards… well, one less mouth to feed.


Mallox


Terminals[]



Visitors Log
Name: Boyle
Notes: Bed, water, dinner, travel provisions

Name: Advesa
Notes: Bed, water

Name: Xenor
Notes: Bed, water, travel provisions

Name: Svoss
Notes: Bed, water, dinner

Name: Jocil

Notes: Bed, water





Rules and Regulations
Charybdis Point House Rules 

1. What you do in your bunk is your business, but keep the noise down.
2. No stealing, no killing, or violence of any kind.
3. Keep to your bunk and the common areas.
4. Meals are kept on a strict schedule. If you're late, that's your problem.

5. We hold the right to kick your ass out at any time.





What's with the name?
I dated a human once who liked mythology.


Mallox





