









Charles Saracino
Terra Firma Politician

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
Gary Anthony Williams


Appearances
Mass Effect


Charles Saracino is the head of the Terra Firma party.  

Contents

1 Mass Effect
2 Mass Effect: Ascension
3 Trivia







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
Commander Shepard meets Saracino on the Upper Wards of the Citadel. He is taking part in a Terra Firma protest to mark Armistice Day, the anniversary of the end of the First Contact War. Like most members of Terra Firma, Saracino believes that Earth must stand firm against alien influences, "politically, socially, and in the worst case, militarily". He cites Shanxi as an episode humanity should never forget when dealing with alien races. If Urdnot Wrex, Garrus Vakarian, Ashley Williams or Liara T'Soni are in the party without any other human squadmates present, one of them ends up arguing with Saracino and Shepard must intervene. 
While Saracino is seeking one of the "spacer" seats in the Alliance parliament at Arcturus Station, he runs into problems due to the conditions involved: for a citizen to be able to vote for a "spacer" candidate, the citizen must spend more than six months a year in space, but not stay in any settled system for more than a month. Shepard, however, fits the bill, hence Saracino asks if the Commander would be interested in voting for him.







“Salvation comes with a cost.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Ascension follow.




Mass Effect: Ascension[]
In 2183 after the Battle of the Citadel, Paul Grayson reminisces about his first kill, Keo, one of the bodyguards of Claude Menneau, who was the chief rival of Saracino. The Illusive Man had Menneau assassinated believing that Saracino would be easier to influence than him.

Trivia[]
News reports cut from the final version of Mass Effect 2 reveal how Shepard's treatment of Saracino's candidacy was originally intended to have affected the latter's career. A report that would have played if Shepard endorsed his candidacy features Saracino being quoted as being pleased that Terra Firma gained seats in a recent parliamentary election and promising continuing pro-human changes. If Shepard refused to endorse him a report would have played stating that Saracino has been charged with, and pled guilty to, tax evasion, and is currently awaiting sentencing. As the content was cut, it is not considered canon.[1]
The news reports are restored in Mass Effect Legendary Edition.



