









Charn




Race
Batarian


Type
Organic


Armament
Assault Rifle, Shotgun


Abilities
 Immunity


Health
Moderate


Shields
Very High


Locations
Asteroid X57


Charn is Balak's batarian second-in-command during the attack on Asteroid X57.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Originally, Charn and his underlings were intent on a quick and effective slave-raid, but the arrival of Balak changed the entire mission. Despite harboring negative and rebellious feelings, Charn is found guarding the final fusion torch as the last line of defence. However, he wants nothing more to do with this mission, hoping only to leave; his fear of Balak "skinning him alive out of spite" nevertheless keeps him on the asteroid to confront Shepard and the squad. When Charn accosts Shepard and the crew, he tells the Commander "this doesn't have to end in bloodshed" and tries to negotiate, claiming that he and his men had only signed on for a slaving mission, not to destroy a colony.
Shepard can convince Charn to leave the asteroid peacefully, under the promise that Balak will be eliminated and Charn will then be the one calling the shots. In that event, Charn agrees immediately and provides Shepard with a pass to the main facility along with a warning that Balak is a "mean bastard".
Alternatively, Shepard can attack Charn, either on seeing his team or after hearing him out. Shepard deems Balak's coming to Asteroid X57 to capture slaves as "reason enough" to fight. After the fight, Shepard can simply take the pass from his corpse.

Trivia[]
Charn is voiced by Jason Singer.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





