




Chasca

Region
Milky Way / Maroon Sea / Matano





Planet View


Orbital Period
1.3 Earth Years


Radius
8,059 km


Day Length
1.3 Earth Years


Atm. Pressure
0.86 atm


Surface Temp
67 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.88 g


Mass
1.395 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Maroon Sea / Matano System /  Second planet


Colony

Species
Human


Capital
(none)


Colony Founded
2183


Population
150



Prerequisite: Feros: Geth Attack (Mass Effect)

Contents

1 Description
2 Additional Information
3 Assignments
4 Points of Interest
5 Mineral Deposits
6 Lifeforms
7 Properties
8 Trivia


Description[]
Chasca is a large but low density world, fundamentally similar to its inner neighbor Inti. Like Inti, Chasca is tidally-locked to Matano. The same side always faces the sun, resulting in a scorching day side and a frozen night side. In the temperate areas around the terminator, temperatures average around 30 Celcius. Combined with a nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere, this slender band of habitable terrain allows limited colonization by humans.
Chasca's ring is unique. It appears to be, for lack of a better term, a massive piece of alien "installation art." The rings are made of small pieces of synthetic material, and are almost invisible from space. From the ground, they catch and scatter the light of Matano in picturesque ways. It is not known who created the ring, or when.
Chasca is very early in development, with little more than a few pioneer teams scattered across the surface. Information is being collated about native hazards and ecology, while a massive colonist recruiting drive is gearing up back on Earth.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.









“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Additional Information[]
In 2183, the colony is wiped out by a Cerberus experiment. Dragon's teeth converted the colonists to husks.
In 2185, the Delta Pavonis Foundation is raising funds from investors and recruiting volunteers for the second stage colonization of this world.
Emily Wong has some news reports about the planet. One of the stories mentioned claims that Chasca's colonial growth is back on track with the help of asari  investment and that the colony is accepting new recruits. The Alliance's Fifth Fleet made a brief visit to it recently. Wong also mentions that the geth were responsible for the deaths of the first colonists, despite Cerberus being the true perpetrators.

Assignments[]
Assignment: Investigate Samples → UNC: Colony of the Dead
Collection: UNC: Prothean Data Discs: Prothean Data Discs ×1
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals: Heavy Metal ×1 / Light Metal ×1 / Rare Element ×1
Points of Interest[]



Location

Appearance

Description


1

Initial

Civilian building (UNC: Colony of the Dead)


2

Initial

Civilian building (UNC: Colony of the Dead)


3

Initial

Science facility (UNC: Colony of the Dead)


4

Initial

Probe (salvage)


5

Initial

Prothean pyramid and dig site (UNC: Prothean Data Discs) (salvage).
In the structure, there is a med kit, a Technician Kit, and a Crate (Average Decryption). Beside the structure is a crate with the disc, as well as another crate (Average Decryption).


“There are several small Prothean artifacts in the crate, including an intact Prothean data disc. It appears to be in excellent condition.”




6

Unmarked

Space Cow herd


Mineral Deposits[]

Main article: UNC: Valuable Minerals


Location

Element

Class


1

Plutonium

Rare


2

Palladium

Heavy


3

Beryllium

Light


Lifeforms[]
Husks
Space Cows
Properties[]
Chasca's atmosphere has a light hail of organic particulates, although it is one of the few worlds where it's safe to go helmetless.
The world's points of interest aside from the colony buildings lie along a complex mountain range with steep inclines, which could result in arduous uphill drives going from place to place.

Trivia[]
All planets in the Matano system are named after deities of Inca mythology. Chasca is the Inca deity of dawn and twilight.
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition, Chasca's terrain now features 3D grass carpeting instead of plain green textures.



