









Chellick
C-Sec Detective

Race
Turian


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
Gideon Emery


Appearances
Mass Effect: HomeworldsMass Effect


Chellick is a C-Sec detective on the Citadel and former colleague of Garrus Vakarian.

Contents

1 Mass Effect: Homeworlds
2 Mass Effect
3 Trivia
4 References







“You've got to walk your own path...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Homeworlds follow.




Mass Effect: Homeworlds[]
Chellick handled a case of two quarians who stowed on a turian freighter. He convinced the ship captain to forego pressing charges, but he wasn't any more sympathetic to the stowaways. One of the quarians, Tali'Zorah nar Rayya, attempted to tell him about something valuable in her possession, but the detective couldn't care less about anything she had to say; he held prejudiced stereotypical views against her race. 
Releasing the quarians' cuffs, Chellick told them there were other freighters needing honest workers that they could board. He just wanted them off the Citadel by the next day.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
With the help of Jenna, Chellick is hoping to combat illegal arms trading on the Citadel. When Commander Shepard tries to talk to Jenna about the dangers of being a C-Sec informant, Chellick—in the guise of a drunk—bumps into Shepard on the way out of Chora's Den, whispering for Shepard to come to C-Sec before staggering off.

If Shepard chooses to meet Chellick in his office, he expresses his annoyance that Shepard almost blew Jenna's cover.  He explains he is using Jenna due to the difficulty of finding good help, but he is willing to let her go if he can get someone else to assist his investigation into the illegal arms sales. In order to locate the arms dealers, he plans to use a krogan contact named Jax who is bringing illegal weapons modifications onto the Citadel.  Chellick needs someone to meet with Jax and receive the mods.  
Shepard can pose as a buyer for the modifications down in the Markets and either play the part carefully, leaving Chellick's contacts intact, or go against Chellick's request and attempt to make an arrest. If Shepard ends up shooting Jax, Chellick loses all his leads and angrily dismisses Shepard if the Commander tries to speak to him again. If Shepard maintains the cover, Chellick is very pleased with the outcome, and permits Jenna to quit her position as an informant and passes some of the modifications to Shepard.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Trivia[]
In Mass Effect 2, an Emily Wong news vid on the Citadel regarding Shepard's actions during Garrus' loyalty mission will refer to him as Executor Chellick, implying that he may have succeeded Executor Pallin as head of C-Sec. However, as Pallin remains Executor in Mass Effect: Retribution, which is set after the events of Mass Effect 2, this is likely a remnant of content ultimately cut from the game which revealed that Pallin was killed by geth during the Battle of the Citadel[1] Since Pallin canonically survived the events of Mass Effect, Chellick's position as Executor in Mass Effect 2 is likely a mistake.
According to the cut conversations with Sergeant Haron, Chellick's first name is Decian. Chellick allows Shepard to remain armed on the Citadel as the Commander tends to find trouble and "needs to be armed". If Garrus is brought around for the scenario, he considers Chellick the "safe" choice to lead C-Sec, but not the one he'd make.
In Mass Effect: Homeworlds, his name is spelled as Chellik.
Detective Chellick's voice actor, Gideon Emery, also portrayed Fenris and Raleigh Samson in BioWare's Dragon Age II and Dragon Age: Inquisition.
References[]

↑ http://www.youtube.com/user/didymos1120#p/u/3/gmXDwXxl_80





