









Chief Weyrloc Guld




Race
Krogan


Type
Organic, Biotic


Faction
Clan Weyrloc


Armament
M-300 Claymore


Abilities
 Warp Barrier Berserker Charge Regeneration


Health
High


Armor
High


Barrier
High


Locations
Tuchanka


Chief Weyrloc Guld is the krogan leader of Clan Weyrloc on Tuchanka. He is willing to cure the genophage at any cost, even if it means experimenting on humans and willing members of his clan.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




In 2185, Commander Shepard has the opportunity to come to rescue Mordin Solus' student Maelon, who is in fact willingly curing the genophage. If the Commander chooses to help Mordin, Guld sends a messenger to tell Shepard that he is willing to let the Commander leave to spread word that Clan Weyrloc will rise above all clans and dominate the galaxy. However, Shepard instead kills any Weyrloc soldiers in the way, before killing Guld himself.
The Chief Scout at the main Urdnot camp tells Shepard that Weyrloc Guld is considered a leader with a destiny by his followers because he has two children and "one of them's a girl." Having one living child is unlikely because of the genophage. Having two is interpreted by some as a sign. The Chief Scout is dismissive of the thought, saying it was luck.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Guld is armed with an M-300 Claymore Heavy Shotgun, and can use Warp.
Defensive
Guld has strong biotic barrier and armor, high health, charge, and regeneration, like all krogan.

Tactics[]
Guld's tactics are similar to those of other krogan. He will advance steadily on the squad, firing his shotgun; he will charge nearby squadmates, but is otherwise content to let his soldiers precede him and soften up Shepard's squad. On higher difficulty levels, he will also use Warp on exposed squadmates, making him more dangerous at range.
A myriad of explosive canisters are present on the battlefield, and a player can make great use of them when battling Guld.
It is best to whittle his health down before moving in for the killing blow. Squadmates with Warp and Incinerate are useful for his barrier and armour respectively.
He can easily be dispatched at long range so try to keep him back and don't be afraid to retreat if he gets close. His shotgun packs a punch.
As with all krogan, Warp Ammo and headshots are very effective. Coupling Warp Ammo with a precision weapon such as the Viper Sniper Rifle or the Vindicator Battle Rifle will allow you to quickly suppress and defeat Guld from a longer distance.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




