






This article is about the human homeworld. For the multiplayer DLC pack for Mass Effect 3, see Mass Effect 3: Earth.



Earth

Region
Milky Way / Local Cluster / Sol





Planet View


Orbital Distance
1 AU


Orbital Period
1 Earth Year


Keplerian Ratio
1


Radius
6,378 km


Day Length
23.9 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
1 atm


Surface Temp
23 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.0 g


Mass
1 Earth Mass


Satellites
Luna


Location: Milky Way / Local Cluster / Sol System /  Third planet


Homeworld

Species
Human


Population
11.4 billion


Population (L4 and L5 stations)
250,000



Prerequisite: Level 20 (Mass Effect)

Prerequisite: Priority: Cerberus Headquarters (Mass Effect 3)



Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry

2.1 Mass Effect
2.2 Mass Effect 3


3 Additional Information
4 Missions
5 Mineral Deposits
6 See Also
7 Trivia
8 External Links


Description[]
For detailed information, please refer to the standard issue Alliance Galactic Codex. Earth orbit is riddled with debris generated by "bootstrap" space development; use of kinetic barriers is recommended at altitudes over 85 km.

Codex Entry[]
Mass Effect[]





Audio: Earthhttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Earth_Codex.ogg

The homeworld and capital of humanity is entering a new golden age. The resource wealth of a dozen settled colonies and a hundred industrial outposts flows back to Earth, fueling great works of industry, commerce, and art. The great cities are greening as arcology skyscrapers and telecommuting allow more efficient use of land.
Earth is still divided among nation-states, though all are affiliated beneath the overarching banner of the Systems Alliance. While every human enjoys longer and better life than ever, the gap between rich and poor widens daily. Advanced nations have eliminated most genetic disease and pollution. Less fortunate regions have not progressed beyond 20th century technology, and are often smog-choked, overpopulated slums.
Sea levels have risen two meters in the last 200 years, and violent weather is common due to environmental damage inflicted during the late 21st century. The past few decades, however, have seen significant improvement due to recent technological advances.


Mass Effect 3[]





Audio: Earthhttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Earth_ME3_Codex.ogg

Earth, the homeworld and capital of humanity, was enjoying a new golden age before the Reapers attacked. Disease, pollution, and other social ills were on the decline thanks to technological advances and a wealth of resources from the colonies. Earth was an inspiration even to alien cultures, resulting in influence out of proportion with humanity's brief time on the galactic stage.
The Reaper attack has put an end to any semblance of this former life. The great cities of Earth are storehouses of human DNA for the Reapers to harvest. Reaper gunships, capable of megaton-scale firepower, annihilated industrial centers in seconds. The militaries of Earth's disparate nation-states have retained only partial communication with the Systems Alliance fleets, leaving the planet's resistance efforts uncoordinated and vulnerable. The loss of the comm-buoy network has cut off Earth's economy from the rest of the galaxy, sending shockwaves across galactic markets--and a significant obstacle to receiving aid.


Additional Information[]
Known governments on Earth include the United North American States, the European Union, and the Chinese People's Federation. The Union of Incorporated Nations (UNIN) is another polity composed of former United Nations countries that weren't powerful enough to be founding members of the Systems Alliance.
According to information gathered by the Collectors, the human population of Earth in 2183 is 11,490,225,106.
The bluefin tuna, a native fish, is thought to be extinct as of 2186, although there's at least one cryogenically frozen sample bound for the Andromeda galaxy.

Missions[]
Mission: Prologue: Earth
Mission: Priority: Earth
Mineral Deposits[]
Earth cannot be mined.

See Also[]
Cerberus Daily News
"Teenager Leads Systems Alliance Fighters on High Speed Chase" story
"Systems Alliance Hears Ford v. Huerta" storyline
"Mass Protests Against Ford v. Huerta Decision" storyline
Trivia[]

In the original Mass Effect, the Earth appears as a mirror image when viewed from Luna.
In Mass Effect 2, when entering Earth's orbit, the planet is shown to be spinning backwards (effectively making the Sun rise in the west, rather than the east).
The Mass Effect 3 multiplayer maps Firebase London, Firebase Rio and Firebase Vancouver are located on Earth.
External Links[]
Mass Effect 3: Story - Earth



