




Chohe

Region
Milky Way / Hades Gamma / Cacus





Planet View


Orbital Distance
3.7 AU


Orbital Period
5.4 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
1.737


Radius
8,000 km


Day Length
54.5 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.00 atm


Surface Temp
11 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.0 g


Mass
1.562 Earth Masses


Satellites
1


Location: Milky Way / Hades Gamma / Cacus System /  Second planet

Prerequisite: 75% Morality (Mass Effect)

Contents

1 Description
2 Assignments
3 Points of Interest
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Lifeforms
6 Search and Rescue
7 Properties
8 Trivia


Description[]
Chohe is a terrestrial planet whose surface is mainly composed of aluminum, with numerous deposits of calcium. Though it has enough mass to retain a dense atmosphere, Chohe is nearly a vacuum. This lack of atmosphere allows a moderate average temperature, but the differences between night and day are extreme.
The surface of Chohe's sunward-facing side is usually covered by a haze of volatiles (mainly water vapor and carbon dioxide), which return to the ground as frost over the course of the long, cold night.
The Sirta Foundation has established a research outpost on Chohe to investigate the native subterranean life of Chohe, which shows incredible resilience to extremes of heat and cold.

Assignments[]
Assignment: UNC: Besieged Base
Collection: UNC: Asari Writings: Matriarch's Writings ×3
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals: Heavy Metal ×1 /  Rare Element ×1
Points of Interest[]



Location

Appearance

Description


1

Initial

Underground complex (UNC: Besieged Base)


2

Initial

Crashed probe (salvage)


3

Initial

Abandoned camp (UNC: Asari Writings ×3 and salvage)

“While sifting through this pile of debris, you discovered another of Matriarch Dilinaga's writings. It's in bad shape, but most of it is still intact.

It looks like someone has been living in this place. This small crate held some stale food and one of Matriach Dilinaga's writings. It's still in fairly good condition… unlike the food.

It's not clear who owns this container, but you discovered one of Matriarch Dilinaga's writings inside.

When turning off the transmitter: Close to the transmitter, your comms pick up a recording of a wistful string quartet.  You power the system down.  Whoever lived here, they haven't been back for some time.  The crates are covered with Chohe's chalky dust, and the status lights of the shack indicate its atmosphere ran out long ago.”




4

Discovery

Crashed satellite, salvager corpse and mercenaries

“This person must have died while attempting to salvage a crashed satellite.”




5

Unmarked

Thresher Maw


Mineral Deposits[]

Main article: UNC: Valuable Minerals


Location

Element

Class


1

Plutonium

Rare


2

Mercury

Heavy


Lifeforms[]
Biotic Terrorist
Biotic Terrorist Leader
Insane Scientist
Mercenary
Mercenary Anti-Tank
Mercenary Sniper
Thresher Maw
Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Salvage - 10,000 credits
Properties[]
Its surface albedo as calculated from parameters is −1.48. Some of that can be adjusted upward given that the sun is, from this distance, a disc rather than a point (if not by much).
But no planet here can be older than its star, which as a main-sequence F0 is no older than 2.82 billion years. Chohe is a large planet and is still emitting heat from its formation and differentiation; in addition its core must be at least as radioactive as Faringor's. The plutonium here probably does not date to the planet's formation, but could be the result of a natural reaction as in Oklo in Gabon.
Visible from planetside is a small, spherical, and airless satellite; redly coated with iron rust dust like Mars or else methane ice like Sedna. It is a captured body. The artwork is identical to that used for Klendagon above Presrop, and is likely footage of Mars; it cannot be taken as a map of the moon.

Trivia[]
Chohe and Amaranthine have exactly the same in-game geography.
Chohe's moon is a recycled image of a real-world picture of Mars. The same asset is used on the skyboxes of Altahe, Presrop, and Trebin.



