


Chora's Den is a gentlemen's club on the Citadel, located in the lower section of the Wards near the Markets. Its layout consists of a circular central bar, with booths placed along the perimeter of the room. It also contains a storage area and small warehouse in the back, along with a manager's office in the very rear.
The club usually has many patrons, and lively music. The highlight of the club is the asari dancers, who offer private shows—Commander Shepard has the opportunity to watch a show in an empty seat. Compared to Flux, Chora's Den is described as "livelier but deadlier".
Chora's Den has operated under this name since at least 2165. Presently owned by a local crime lord named Fist, it used to be called the Archos before he took over.

Contents

1 Mass Effect: Revelation
2 Mass Effect
3 Mass Effect 2







“I came here looking for soldiers.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Revelation follow.




Mass Effect: Revelation[]
When then-Lieutenant Anderson was depressed after finding out his divorce had been finalised, he went to the Den to take the edge off the gloom. A volus bartender, Maawda, offered him an asari drink called elasa along with some words of comfort. Having a meeting with the human ambassador scheduled for the following morning, however, Anderson's stay was brief. Upon leaving the bar, he became certain he was being insulted by a pair of turian customers who had been glaring at him, though despite the temptation decided against starting a fight, and simply left.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
Harkin, a disgraced C-Sec officer, is a known barfly of the Den who could hopefully help Shepard find Garrus Vakarian during the course of investigating Saren.
It is soon revealed that Fist holds some information critical to the case. When Shepard arrives to get some answers from him, the club had been shut down. Fist's thugs and bar employees open fire on the team, to no avail as Shepard successfully breaks through and confronts Fist in his office. With Fist out of the picture, Chora's Den soon reopens for business.
As proved by Jenna, the Den remains a good place to keep an ear to the ground, as the clientele are rarely strictly legit. One exception is the retired turian general, Septimus, an honourable man who goes to Chora's Den trying to forget about Sha'ira.
According to idle gossip at Flux, Fist allegedly had corpses buried under the stage, which may also explain the stench of the place.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
After the Battle of the Citadel, Chora's Den never reopened for business. By 2185 it is replaced by the Dark Star Lounge in the Zakera Ward.




