









Chorban




Race
Salarian


Type
Organic


Armament
Pistol


Abilities
 First Aid Neural Shock


Health
Low


Shields
Moderate


Locations
Citadel


Chorban is a self-proclaimed salarian scientist who has developed a scanner to obtain readings of keepers. Commander Shepard first finds him at the Citadel Tower, attempting to get a reading on a stationary keeper.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
Chorban and his partner Jahleed stole the plans for an advanced medical scanner from the company they were working for. They reconfigured them to scan the keepers. Chorban is very interested in learning more about the keepers, since very little is known about their activities and how they accomplish them. However, though he does not believe his scanner disturbs the keepers, he is hesitant to continue his research overtly, lest the authorities take a dim view of his curiosity in the creatures. Shepard can volunteer to continue the research, and later help Jahleed in his row with the salarian.
Chorban can be found in the lower markets of the Wards if Shepard agrees to mediate in the conflict. He has a couple of bodyguards with him, but he sends them away if Shepard is already aware of his research. He amicably discloses the truth. 

If Shepard was ignorant of Chorban's activities before talking to Jahleed, Chorban turns hostile and assumes the Commander was sent by Jahleed to turn over the initial keeper data. Disbelieving any claims to the contrary, he and his two Salarian Bodyguards engage the Commander in a firefight, ultimately losing. He decides his life is worth more than the data and begs Shepard not to kill him.
Whatever the context of the meeting in the markets, Chorban admits he and his partner lost perspective, but he is still very much interested in learning about the Citadel's mysterious caretakers, and still offers Shepard the chance to scan (or continue scanning) the keepers for him. He doesn't really want to kill Jahleed, but he supposes the volus wants the discovery all to himself. 
Chorban has three possible fates: The Commander agrees to take up (or continue) the keeper scanning for him, he's discouraged from continuing the research, or Shepard kills him for the hassle if their meeting began in a fight.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
If Shepard did not kill Chorban in 2183 and scanned all or most of the keepers, he contacts Shepard via email to give a summary of his findings – entitled "Concerns re: keepers".





From: Chorban

I hope this address still works. I promised to send you intel on the keepers if I found anything, and this is important. See, those scans you took? It turns out the keepers are bio-engineered... and based on my comparisons to some of that material from Saren's flagship Sovereign, they were engineered millions of years ago... by the same people who made Sovereign!

You may not understand how important this is, but it suggests that the Citadel wasn't really made by the Protheans! It may have been made by something far older, with the keepers as organic guardians. And what's more, based on my genetic readings, they're supposed to react to... something, some signal or something... about every 50 thousand years. You can measure genetic variances; it's a bit like comparing rings on a tree to see the drought years.

Whoever did this... well, around the last time this signal went off would be around the time the Protheans disappeared. And it's scheduled to go off sometime around now. If any of the old tech still works, they could have some nasty surprises waiting for us.

Just thought you'd want to know. Nobody here on the Citadel will listen to me.


-Chorban




Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





