


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 


Chosen

 







Faction
Kett


Weapons / Attacks
ZalkinGrenades


Abilities
–


Health
Normal


Shields
–


Weak Points
Head


The Chosen is a kett unit. It fulfills the standard footsoldier role in the kett army.

Contents

1 Scanner Information
2 Description

2.1 Exaltation Discovered


3 Capabilities
4 Tactics


Scanner Information[]
Kett Chosen


DATA:
Classification: Enemy
Origin: Andromeda
ANALYSIS:
The kett's primary front line trooper, who carries a plasma assault rifle for deadly precision.

Description[]
Chosen are the front-line soldiers of the kett, encountered on multiple worlds as support for other kett combatants. They are equipped with assault rifles that fires plasma-surrounded projectiles, and light armor that allows them to move and deploy rapidly. Though their biology is still under investigation, they are capable of surviving in hazardous environments without protective gear. 
While quick to defer to more senior individuals, Chosen appear to be disciplined and loyal soldiers, undeterred even by biotic attacks or heavy ordnance. They present a continuing risk to unarmed outposts. 
The name "Chosen" was intercepted and tentatively translated from kett communications. If accurate, its significance is unclear, since these are clearly the kett's baseline infantry. 

Exaltation Discovered[]
With a new understanding of kett exaltation, it is now apparent that Chosen are exalted angara, transformed into soldiers of the kett cause. This may explain their title. Their devotion to senior kett can now be understood as a hard-wired hormonal response that induces unshakeable loyalty. 


Capabilities[]
Offensive
Chosen carry Zalkin assault rifles, and can hit at almost any range. They also use high explosive (HE) grenades to flush targets out of cover.
At melee range they can punch their enemies.

Defensive
Chosen possess no form of protection save for the capability of leaping to the sides to escape incoming skills or projectile fire.

Tactics[]
Although they are the most basic kett unit, Chosen are not to be underestimated. Very cunning, they never miss an opportunity to flank or flush targets out of cover, with their tactics proving lethal most of the time on higher difficulties.
Since they're unarmored by any gameplay metric, they're easy prey to crowd control skills like Pull, Singularity, or Cryo Beam. Detonating combo explosions with such skills will have the added bonus of wiping out clumps of them and any other unarmored/unshielded units in the vicinity.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




