



Film director Solik Vass is looking for inspirational footage to be used in a film to raise morale for the war effort. Find footage on the Citadel and return to Vass at the refugee camp.

Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Priority: The Citadel II

Speak to Solik Vass at the Docks: Holding Area security checkpoint. He (and his camera drone) isn't allowed inside the refugee camp, as the turian border guard deems him "disruptive", so he wants you to take quick shots in his stead. You will receive the mission even if you refuse to help as Solik really needs those pictures.

Walkthrough[]
After Solik presents his requests, you will receive morality points depending on your willingness to help.
There are four acceptable photo opportunity locations in the docks. You only need to take 3 photos. By "taking photos", simply use the on-screen prompt that will appear when you approach a location and do not confuse it with Mass Effect Legendary Edition's Photo Mode.

At the Memorial Wall where a salarian is consoling a grieving human woman.The area between Bay E24 and Bay E26, where a woman is having a conversation with a male human/batarian.Cargo Hold: B, where there are two doctors tending to patients atop cratesThe area between Bay E26 and Bay E28, where James is playing cards with three other players.1/4
There are four more photo opportunity areas, but these are unsuitable for Solik's film and he will ask you to look for other photo opportunities: the crates near the Memorial Wall, a turian security officer at Bay E26, a turian security officer at Bay E24, and a turian using a vending machine between Bay E26 and Bay E24.
After taking the photos, return to Solik and give him the footage. You will receive 5 reputation, 210 experience and 5,000 credits.

Bugs[]
There appears to be a glitch or a limit to the available photo opportunities where the option do not appear at the players playing poker. To resolve the issue, reload to a save game before the mission and do not take any unsuitable footage as mentioned above but go directly to the three locations instead.
Saving (after taking at least one correct photo) and then loading the specific save will cause all other photo opportunities to disappear. To resolve the issue, reload a save game prior to taking the first photo. Taking an incorrect photo before the save will result in only the incorrect photo opportunities disappearing.



