






This article is about the location in Mass Effect 3. For the Citadel's embassies in Mass Effect, see Embassies.


The Citadel Embassies is a location on the Citadel in Mass Effect 3. The Citadel Embassies features Councilor Donnel Udina's office, Commander Bailey's C-Sec office, and a Spectre outpost.


Points of Interest[]




C-Sec Office
Commander Bailey can be found here.




Earth Councilor's Office
Councilor Donnel Udina. After Priority: The Citadel II, this area is inaccessible, except when meeting with the asari councilor during Priority: The Citadel III.




Spectre Office
Spectre Terminal - allows Spectres to view and take part in developing situations in Citadel politics and security.
Procurement Terminal - allows Spectres to purchase specialized equipment, as well as items needed to complete side-missions that have been missed.
Shooting Range - for weapons firing practice. Includes a workbench to allow modification of weapons. The range features three targets with health, shield, and armor bars. The targets can be moved to various distances across the range. Ammunition and grenade refills are placed near the target controls for convenience.
Miranda Lawson may be encountered here via a hologram.
Shops:

Spectre Requisitions




Embassy Offices
An Avina terminal
Ambassador Dominic Osoba can be found here.
James Vega, Samara, and Javik can also be found here at various times, looking down on the Presidium.
Khalisah al-Jilani can be found here after speaking to Commander Bailey in his office for the first time.
The Spectre Jondum Bau can be found here.
A volus diplomat offering volus support to the Alliance and the Turian Hierarchy.
An old human lady asking the asari receptionist about her son, who is in the military. (Before the attack on the Citadel)
An Alliance marine talking with the receptionist, trying to send her daughter to Thessia. (After the attack on the Citadel)
An elcor diplomat looking for help in evacuating civilians from Dekuuna. (After the Battle of Rannoch)
An asari war strategist trying to obtain Reaper code fragments to predict their movements. (After the attack on the Citadel)
A turian C-Sec officer seeking Cerberus ciphers. (After the attack on the Citadel)




Office Suite
The hanar Diplomat can be found here, along with volus Ambassador Din Korlack's recordings. This area is only accessible during a specific mission.

Side Missions[]
Aria: Eclipse
Benning: Evidence
Citadel: Batarian Codes
Citadel: Cerberus Ciphers
Citadel: Hanar Diplomat
Citadel: Reaper Code Fragments
Citadel: Volus Ambassador
Dekuuna: Elcor Extraction
Shrike Abyssal: Prothean Obelisk



