


Talk to the waitressTalk to the waitress' sisterBargain with C-Sec1/3You spoke with Rita, a waitress at Flux. She's concerned for her sister, who is working undercover for C-Sec. Rita thinks her sister, Jenna, is in over her head, but she can't convince her to stop.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough
3 Mass Effect 3 Consequences
4 Enemies
5 Bugs
6 Cut Content


Acquisition[]
Upon your first visit to Flux, you can overhear the volus manager Doran speaking with his employee Rita about her sister. Talk to Rita to learn the details of her problem. 

Walkthrough[]
Head to Chora's Den and speak to Jenna at the bar. All dialogue is linear and the same, and results in Jenna being irritated by everyone's concern and refusal to stop working for C-Sec. After she cuts off the conversation, she won't speak to you further.
When leaving Chora's Den, a turian will bump into you and whispers that if you're concerned about Jenna's safety, go see him at C-Sec. When questioned, the turian acts drunk to deflect suspicion and stumbles off. Note:  Exiting the club may overlap with scripted events in Citadel: Garrus, so do one or the other first, not at the same time.
Head to C-Sec and move towards the traffic control area. You'll find the turian in one of the offices on your left. He introduces himself as Chellick, a C-Sec detective, and berates you for almost blowing Jenna's cover. He explains that Jenna is working in Chora's Den to collect information about illegal weapons mods. Note:  Urdnot Wrex can be found blocking the entrance to the C-Sec Offices wing as part of Citadel: Wrex. If you wish to hold off his recruitment for any reason (as merely approaching him triggers the cutscene for his recruitment and there's no way around him), delay this assignment until after finishing Citadel: Expose Saren.
You may Charm or Intimidate Chellick to force him to release Jenna immediately. Additionally, you may gain Chellick's favour: he advises Shepard of an opportunity involving an arms dealer that would close her case, so there will be no need for her to work in the Den. If you lack the requisite points in either alignment, you have no choice but to decline or agree to the quid pro quo.

If you choose to decline initially, the offer to help remains open when you talk to Chellick again.
The arms dealer is a krogan, named Jax, and can be found in the Lower Markets near Morlan's famous shop. At the meeting, you can either try to arrest Jax, kill him outright, or keep up the act and purchase the weapon mods peacefully.
Choosing to arrest or wilfully fight Jax results in a fight and 9 Renegade points when you report back to Chellick.
If you play along and just give Jax his money, Chellick logs the transaction as evidence and gives you these rewards when you report back: 8 Paragon points, an upgrade, credits, omni-gel, and XP (but 175 fewer XP than fighting Jax yields).

Any of these resolutions leads to Jenna being removed from Chora's Den and going back to work at Flux. Speak to Rita to end the assignment (be sure you've spoken with Chellick to receive your reward for dealing with Jax before speaking with Rita to avoid a bug). She is pleased that her sister is out of danger, but slightly annoyed: she forgot that Jenna gets all the good tips.
Mass Effect 3 Consequences[]
If this assignment was completed, along with the assignments involving Conrad Verner in both Mass Effect and Mass Effect 2, Jenna can save Conrad's life during a mission. A Cerberus contact fires a bullet at Shepard which Conrad tries to intercept. If this assignment was never done, Conrad will die in said mission instead.

Enemies[]
Jax (optional)
Turian Bodyguard (optional)
Bugs[]
If you Charm or Intimidate Chellick into letting Jenna go, but you nevertheless agree to help him, the next phase of the assignment will be "Return the mods to Chellick". If instead you visit Rita before you complete the Jax assignment by talking to Chellick, she will thank you and the assignment will end, giving you no opportunity to receive the completion rewards for dealing with Jax; if you try and talk to him, Chellick only responds curtly that he's busy and you can't interact with him any further. How you chose to deal with Jax is irrelevant to this outcome, what matters is speaking with Rita before Chellick.
Cut Content[]





The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

Like several other Citadel quests, this assignment bears a more than passing resemblance to a cut sub-plot: Citadel: Save My Sister, featuring sisters named Rita and Ari.



