


You agreed to be interviewed by a reporter. Hopefully you came off well.
Alternative journal entry:
A reporter approached you for an interview. You refused.
Alternative journal entry:
A reporter approached you for an interview. You agreed at first, but walked away when her bias became apparent.
Alternative journal entry:
A reporter approached you for an interview. You agreed at first, but punched her and left when her bias became apparent.

Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough
3 Aftermath
4 Mass Effect 2 Consequences
5 Mass Effect 3 Consequences
6 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Find Liara T'Soni or Noveria: Matriarch Benezia or Feros: The Thorian

After completing a key mission world (Therum, Noveria or Feros) and returning to the Citadel, a reporter named Khalisah Al-Jilani appears outside the C-Sec Academy lift down from Dock 422. She flags your attention by calling your name, and if you decide to talk to her the assignment is acquired at the end of the conversation regardless of your decisions.

Walkthrough[]
Al-Jilani introduces herself as a Westerlund News reporter who wants to give people back home a sense of how Shepard will represent them as a Spectre. You can agree or refuse, though if you decline initially she tries to change your mind. If you're still set on ignoring her, the assignment ends after she walks away.

If you agree to be interviewed, here are some primers on the upcoming questions. Using Charm or Intimidate responses tend to give Shepard the upper hand in the interview. Abruptly ending the interview can be done in most questions, and you can do it politely or rudely. In the civil version Shepard can realise Al-Jilani has an agenda—portraying Shepard as a "shill for the Council"—and can simply walk away. In the not so civil version you'll end up punching the reporter in the face. If you opt to answer her questions without cutting her off, the interview ends amicably and professionally for both parties.
Al-Jilani asks leading questions about Shepard's Spectre status, whether the Citadel Council's interests conflict with those of the Alliance, and issues over the development and command of the SSV Normandy. After these topics, the next question changes depending on your accomplished main plot missions on either Feros or Noveria.

If you speak to her after finishing Noveria and before Feros, it turns out news of the events at Peak 15 has already gotten back to the Citadel, but stonewalling from Binary Helix means the reports are confused, only mentioning a lab accident and how the events have been handled by Administrator Anoleis. Al-Jilani, knowing Shepard has just returned from Noveria, asks directly if the Council ordered Shepard to sabotage the labs at Peak 15.
If you killed the colonists on Feros, instead of incapacitating them, and speak to Al-Jilani before finishing Noveria, you will hear the news that ExoGeni is shutting down the colony when taking the elevator down to the C-Sec Academy. In the interview Al-Jilani asks Shepard about the reason for the colony's destruction.
If you did both plot worlds before taking the interview, whichever you finished first will be reported on by Al-Jilani. If neither (in the instance you just rescued Liara before anything else), or if you did Feros first but saved the colony instead, the interview question is omitted.
Additionally, Al-Jilani asks if humanity will get the respect it deserves from the galactic community. Lastly, she heard rumors you're hunting down a "rogue Spectre", and she wants confirmation and details if you're inclined to share.

Aftermath[]
Later aboard the Normandy, a transmission will come through from Admiral Hackett at the Fifth Fleet, either praising or reprimanding Shepard for their conduct in the interview, depending on your choices. If Shepard told Al-Jilani that Saren was behind the geth attack on Eden Prime, Hackett reports that this caused a minor diplomatic stir with the Council (they've been trying to downplay any Spectre involvement in Eden Prime) but tells Shepard not to worry about it, the Council's always angry with the Alliance anyway.
A news report in the Citadel elevator later on also gives the media's response to Shepard's interview.
Note: If Charm or Intimidate skills are used, the resulting Paragon / Renegade points will be added only after Admiral Hackett has briefed Shepard about the interview results. Anything Shepard may say in the conversation with Admiral Hackett will have no effect on morality points.

Mass Effect 2 Consequences[]
If you complete this assignment, Khalisah will be waiting in the corner of the 28th floor of the Zakera Ward, next to the Dark Star lounge. This time, however, Shepard is much wiser about her goals. This offers easy xp and Paragon/Renegade points, and another opportunity to slug her in the face. 
She'll comment on you punching her in the first game if you decided to do so. If Shepard punches Khalisah the second time around, but not the first, Shepard will say that s/he should have done that the first time.

Mass Effect 3 Consequences[]
If you complete the assignment from Mass Effect 2, Khalisah will be in front of the elevator in the Citadel Embassies. This final time has her ready for Shepard (if you hit her in the past game), making for a slightly more complicated interrupt sequence. 
If you choose to restrain your fist and opt for the Paragon interrupt response when it comes, Khalisah encourages the galaxy to stand together, contributing to the war effort. If Shepard never punched her in the previous games, her sincerity provokes greater support. If no options are taken upon, Shepard will mark how they have better things to do. None of the options give XP nor morality points.

Trivia[]
Westerlund is a unique and distinctive star cluster in the Local Group.
"The Fourth Estate" is a term for journalists that dates back to the early 19th century.



