


Biotic amp schematics in a biotic school, who would have thoughtAs always, all roads lead to the Citadel1/2
An asari on the Citadel is looking for improved biotic amp interfaces. Find schematics and bring them to her at the Huerta Memorial Hospital. 
Alternative journal entry:
Schematics for new biotic amp interfaces were recovered from Grissom Academy. Find someone on the Citadel who can use these plans.

Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Priority: Palaven

Prerequisite: Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation

An asari standing at the Lab Services section of Huerta Memorial is trying to call Grissom Academy to ask for biotic amp interfaces that she can adapt for asari use but no one there is picking up. Overhearing her troubles activates the mission.
You can also acquire the mission if you find the Biotic Amp Interfaces first while trying to rescue some students from Cerberus.

Walkthrough[]
Note: This mission must be completed before doing Priority: Tuchanka as it will be the last opportunity to visit the Citadel in its present state. It is no longer available the next time the civilian areas reopen, after Priority: The Citadel II. 


The Biotic Amp Interfaces can be found during the mission Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation. They are on a computer terminal in an otherwise empty corridor, after another corridor with Assault Troopers harassing Grissom kids behind a shield (Octavia, others, and David Archer, if he was sent here).
Simply collect the interfaces and deliver them to the asari on your next visit to the hospital. You will be rewarded with 5 Reputation, 30 experience and 1,000 credits. The Citadel Defense Force War Asset is updated as well.
If you missed them in the Academy or get the mission after completing the Academy, they can be bought from the Spectre Requisitions terminal in the Spectre Office at the Citadel Embassies.
When you talk to the asari after completing this mission, the asari will tell someone to alert Matriarch Aethyta about her huntresses' receipt of the amp interfaces.




