


A quirky salarian named Schells was thrown out of Flux for cheating at the gambling machines. He says he wasn't actually cheating. He was just gathering data to create a cheating system. What could be wrong with that?
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Record the Data
2.2 Lose the Device
2.3 Give the Device to Doran


3 Aftermath
4 Trivia
5 Cut Content
6 References


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Citadel: Rita's Sister

After starting the above-mentioned assignment, the next time you enter Flux a cutscene plays showing Schells being thrown out by the club's bouncer. Schells explains that he is trying to perfect his "system" for predicting the outcomes of Quasar machines. In order to do this, he has been using a device which emits a signal that tampers with the machines, increasing his odds of winning (as Schells needs more data on winning instead of losing). Not surprisingly, Flux's owner Doran accused him of cheating and tossed him out. 
Schells will attempt to enlist your help with collecting the data; if you refuse, he'll stay at the entrance to Flux until you agree to help him out.

Walkthrough[]
Once Schells gives you the device, you have three choices.

Record the Data[]
If you want to help Schells, play Quasar until you win 5 times and the device alerts you that enough data has been gathered. You might as well play in the high-stakes machines instead of the low-stakes ones  for more credits. You can then return the device to Schells for additional credits and an XP reward. There are no morality rewards.

Lose the Device[]
Doran is in the casino watching you: if you get greedy and keep playing, once you get 7 wins Doran will come up to you, confiscate Schells' device, take all the credits you have won and ask you to leave the bar. You can return to Schells and tell him the news, ending the assignment with no credit or XP reward.
Give the Device to Doran[]
Alternatively, you can give the device to Doran. (You can give the device to Doran even after you've used it to collect wins for Schells.) If you give him the device, you receive an XP reward and Doran gives you some credits to "play a few rounds of Quasar on the house". Of course, you don't have to play the games and can just walk away with the money. 
The XP and credit amounts are the same as if you had given Schells his data instead. Again, there are no morality rewards for turning the device over to Doran or for choosing to keep the credits instead of playing Quasar.

Aftermath[]
If you return to Flux after this assignment is complete, you will see Doran dancing on the club floor; you can highlight him and activate to do a little dancing of your own. If your love interest is in the party, speak to them a few times on the dance floor, and they will dance with you.
Trivia[]
In 2186, an undercover security officer in the Silver Coast Casino can be overheard referring to Schells' device while trying to make a suspicious quasar pro reveal incriminating information.
Cut Content[]





The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

While the cutscene showing Schells being thrown out of Flux is silent in the released game, unused voicelines for it would have made it clear that Schells was caught cheating.[1]
Like several other Citadel quests, this assignment bears a more than passing resemblance to a cut sub-plot: Citadel: Cheaters Never Prosper, in which Schells' role would have been played by someone named Beck.
References[]

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Citadel Voicelines#sta60_trig03_schells_thrown





