


Samesh Bhatia, the husband of a soldier who died on Eden Prime, has asked you to convince the Alliance to return his wife's body.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough
3 Mass Effect 2 Consequences
4 Trivia
5 References


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Citadel: Expose Saren

Samesh Bhatia appears after Tali joins your party, in front of the embassy reception desk in the Presidium. He wants to speak to you when you pass him, and if you do he asks you to intervene on his behalf. Even if you decide this isn't worth your time, he hands out this assignment anyway.

Walkthrough[]
Samesh is trying to secure the release of the physical remains of his wife, Nirali Bhatia, from Clerk Bosker. Nirali was a soldier in the 212 on Eden Prime, and Samesh simply wants to give her a respectful cremation. However, the Alliance has given no explanation as to why her body has not been released. 
Ashley Williams served with Samesh's wife on Eden Prime, and you may want to bring her with you for additional insight with Samesh for the duration of this assignment. If you have Kaidan in your group but not Ashley, he will mention that Ashley was in the 212 and may want to speak with Mr. Bhatia.
Clerk Bosker is in the Embassies Lounge nearby. You'll see him as you walk in, leaning up against a wall on the right. Bosker will explain that Nirali's body is being retained for important tests that may lead to better defences for Alliance soldiers against geth attacks. However, the studies may not show results for years.

You have to decide whether to allow the Alliance to keep Nirali's body, or have her returned to Samesh for burial. The optimal outcomes for each option require and yield morality points. You can either convince Bosker, telling him that these studies violate the very principles the Alliance is fighting for, or return to Samesh and convince him that these tests will make the most of Nirali's sacrifice. Choosing either of the Charm options (2 or less for Bosker, 3 for Samesh), gets you 8 Paragon points, while the Intimidate options (2 points for Bosker, 3 points for Samesh) will get you 9 Renegade points. 
Assignment resolution solely rests on Samesh's reaction to whatever's decided; Clerk Bosker can only be charmed/intimidated into releasing the body, or left standing while you speak with Samesh. If you allow the Alliance to keep the corpse, but don't use any morality options on Samesh to convince him, he angrily leaves and you get no rewards. 
Whatever the outcome, Samesh and Clerk Bosker both disappear from the Citadel at the end of the assignment.

Mass Effect 2 Consequences[]
If Nirali Bhatia's body was returned to her husband, Shepard will receive an email at their private terminal from Samesh Bhatia detailing his thanks. He mentions that he has opened a restaurant that his wife had planned on creating when she eventually left the military and as a token of his appreciation, all Alliance personnel are welcome free.
Additionally, a news announcement on Omega will report that the Alliance is having trouble with recruiting, since the public doesn't believe the Alliance can match geth technology.

Trivia[]
If you take this assignment after finishing Virmire and sacrificing Ashley, Kaidan will still tell you that Ashley may want to speak with Samesh.
Samesh slightly changes positions depending on your angle of approach to him when acquiring this assignment. If he's facing away from the Presidium lake, he correctly points to the Embassy lounge to his left. If he's facing toward the Embassy Lounge, he still points to his left, which is now the Presidium lake.
According to content cut from Mass Effect 2, if the player left the body with the Alliance, the decision bore fruit in the form of weapons upgrades.[1]
References[]

↑ http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gmXDwXxl_80





