


Old tech isn't necessarily obsolete, more so if krogan-designedAs always, all roads lead to the Citadel1/2
A technician at Purgatory on the Citadel needs an improved power grid to keep things running. Find schematics for a new power grid and deliver them.
Alternative journal entry:
Schematics for an improved power grid have been recovered on Tuchanka. Find someone on the Citadel who can make use of them.

Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Priority: Palaven

Prerequisite: N7: Cerberus Attack

Alison the technician can be found to the right of the Purgatory entrance looking at a datapad in her left hand. Listen to her complaints to acquire the mission.
Alternatively, both the item and the mission's journal entry can be acquired during a sortie against Cerberus on Tuchanka.

Walkthrough[]
Note: This mission must be completed before doing Priority: Tuchanka as it will be the last opportunity to visit the Citadel in its present state. It is no longer available the next time the civilian areas reopen, after Priority: The Citadel II. 


The schematics can be obtained examining the Old Grid Schematics on the console in front of the controls for the cannon during the N7: Cerberus Attack mission on Tuchanka. Shepard quips it's not the kind of krogan "relic" they expected to find. Note:  It is temporarily unobtainable when Cerberus cuts the power to the consoles, then available again once you've restored the power. Take the schematics before using the cannon to demolish the Cerberus cruiser in orbit, which ends the main mission.
If you didn't retrieve the power grid schematics from the mission you can buy an equivalent from Spectre Requisitions in the Citadel Embassies for 1,000 base credits. 
Whichever way you acquired the schematics, turn over the item to Alison, who is still standing outside Purgatory. Completing this mission gives you 5 Reputation, 30 experience and 1,000 credits. It also updates the Alliance Fifth Fleet War Asset.
Interacting with Alison after turning in the power grid plans allows you to overhear Alison's continued call, where she suggests donating a portion of Purgatory's profits to a krogan charity, in gratitude for designing the new power grid.




