







The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

Citadel: Oculon Syndicate is an assignment in Mass Effect which was cut during the game's development. It would have taken place on the Citadel and allowed Commander Shepard to delve into the station's criminal underworld.[1]

Contents

1 Plotline

1.1 Shakedown Dak
1.2 Missing Workers
1.3 Dwellers
1.4 Eliminate Harkin
1.5 Help Dak
1.6 Help Workers
1.7 Retrieve Data
1.8 Elimination Round


2 Trivia
3 References


Plotline[]
This mission appears to have many sub-plots, some of which can exclude others depending on the manner and order in which they are handled. As for the general mission: Shepard would at one point come "recommended" to Harkin, and could then decide whether to work for the Syndicate, or against it, which could result in their destruction, "peacefully" or violently. Another contact in the general plot would be someone named Beck, who would have several jobs for Shepard. Eventually, Beck and Harkin could confront one another. Shepard could apparently "work with Fist directly" over the course of the assignment. It's also mentioned how some warehouse guards could be killed or made to leave peacefully.

Shakedown Dak[]
As the name implies, the character named "Dak" would play a key role in this sub-plot. Another important part seems to have been an "ambush meeting" that so-called "dwellers" could be part of. This assignment could be apparently solved in many different ways; Dak could die, be "persuaded" to a "partnership", forced to pay, or Shepard could pay for Dak. In addition, it was possible to convince the Syndicate "regarding dwellers", or to "partner". Shepard could also refuse to act at a certain point, which would result in Dak being either "okay" or "beaten", or Shepard could skip this sub-plot to get to Harkin.

Missing Workers[]
In this job, Shepard would come across a group of turians who could be killed or let go. During a confrontation with the foreman, Shepard would choose whether to accept or refuse a "bribe." It's also mentioned that it's possible to help a turian escape the Citadel. A part of this assignment would take place inside a warehouse, where a "tool" and "data" could be "acquired", and where it was also possible for Shepard to "flirt." There is also mention of "kid gloves" in relation to the warehouse, specifically linked to a female-gendered Shepard.

Dwellers[]
This seemingly short job mentions "defeating" the dwellers, and there is also mention of an item relating to the initials "BM."

Eliminate Harkin[]
Shepard's objective here is finding and dealing with Harkin. He could be left alive, or killed. Afterwards, Shepard would contact Fist and either "reveal Harkin" to him, or keep the secret. During the course of this assignment, it would also be possible for Shepard to "screw the Syndicate", or instead to obtain Harkin's "badge."

Help Dak[]
In this assignment which would negatively affect the Syndicate, Shepard would help Dak, the target at the center of the Syndicate job "Shakedown Dak." Here, after talking to Dak, Shepard would have the ability to prepare an ambush for the Syndicate goons, and also could give some "cash" to Dak.

Help Workers[]
This short assignment would include "handling" a group of "dwellers", and it was possible for Shepard to "get" a "turian shot."

Retrieve Data[]
Harkin and Fist would both play a role in this assignment, and the latter would at some point give a "speech" in an "elevator", and could end up killed. Some of the data would apparently be about Shepard.

Elimination Round[]
In this job, Fist could apparently make the same "elevator speech" as in "Retrieve Data."

Trivia[]
The part where some warehouse guards could be killed or convinced to leave peacefully bears similarity to what happens during the course of Citadel: Expose Saren. Harkin and Fist are present in both missions.
The idea of Harkin being a contact for the Citadel's criminal underworld recurs in Mass Effect 2 during Garrus: Eye for an Eye. Such a link isn't made clear during the course of the first game's canon.
Beck also appears in the cut assignment Citadel: Cheaters Never Prosper as the titular cheater.
References[]

↑ Plot Database: LE1.CH1_Star_Citadel.DELETED_Oculon_Syndicate





