



A message from Primarch Victus implicates volus ambassador Din Korlack as a possible Cerberus informant. Investigate the ambassador at the Presidium Embassies.

Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Priority: The Citadel II

After stopping the Cerberus coup, Shepard receives an email from Primarch Victus containing this assignment.




Durlesh MoleFrom: Adrien Victus

Commander Shepard:

Cerberus just ambushed a turian cruiser full of high-ranking Hierarchy officials. The cruiser managed to escape, but its location was top-secret. Cerberus couldn't have located that ship without inside information, and the only other person who knew the cruiser's position was volus ambassador Din Korlack. I've heard ugly rumors of a bounty out for his head.

My advisors insist I can't bring these accusations against Korlack myself. I admit they're right. The turian and volus economies are tightly intertwined, and now isn't the time for the political crisis that would result. But the security of our fleets is at stake.

I ask that you investigate Korlack in your capacity as a Spectre, and find out if he is, indeed, a Cerberus mole. I've forwarded information on his last known location to the Spectre office on the Citadel.

Regards,
Primarch Victus




Walkthrough[]
First, go to the Citadel Embassies floor and go to the Spectre room. Use the Spectre Terminal to receive a location on Din Korlack.


Then, talk to the turian guard who's at the Office Suite in the Citadel Embassies. Save, then talk to him again. He will let you into the office. There's a terminal in the office containing 3 audio recordings of previous events, hear them out. They're evidence of Korlack's collusion with Cerberus and his severance of ties. If you imported from Mass Effect 2 with Zaeed Massani alive, be surprised to hear his gentlemanly tones.
You only need to listen to the third entry to get the plot going. On the opposite side of the room you will find an earpiece with a link to Korlack. There will be a cutscene and then you will end up at the Presidium Commons. You ask the ambassador for his location, who slyly namedrops "Selkish Arms" within his captors' hearing. Head to either Apartment 80 or 94, the ones at the far ends of the hall. Whichever you try first will be the wrong door, and this begins a short timed section of the mission. Hustle to the opposite door without pausing. Note: If you can't open the second door, reload a previous save and try again, moving more quickly between the first door and the second door.
On opening the right door you'll find Korlack, and he won't be alone:

If Zaeed survived the suicide mission and you secured his loyalty on Zaeed: The Price of Revenge, he greets you after disposing of Korlack's other guards.
If Zaeed was disloyal, he dies on the floor after killing the mercs.
If Zaeed was never recruited or he died during the events of Mass Effect 2, a human female and a krogan male stand poised to kill Korlack before Shepard dispatches them.

After the cutscene, there will be a choice between saving the colony or gaining the Volus Bombing Fleet as War Assets. If you received Zaeed's loyalty, you can choose a Paragon or Renegade option that gets you both. 
If you can only have one or the other, to maximize your war assets get the bombing fleet for a net shift of 65 points. The bombing fleet is worth 75, and the Turian Sixth Fleet will lose 10 points from this decision. 
Upon completion you will gain 210 experience, 5,000 credits, and morality points depending on your conversation choice. If Zaeed made it out alive, you will be able to find him in the refugee camp and recruit him as a War Asset. If you chose the bombers over Korlack's intel, a news report concerning the unrevealed Cerberus target will pop up in the email inbox after the mission.




