



Medi-gel dispensers in the Citadel refugee camp have been sabotaged. Find the dispensers and repair them.

Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Basic Mission
2.2 With Additional Characters


3 Aftermath
4 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Priority: The Citadel II

After the Cerberus attack on the Citadel, talk to the Clinic Doctor in the Docks: Holding Area. He is located in the center of Cargo Hold: B. If Conrad Verner is alive, he appears in front of Bay E24 and you also need to talk to him to unlock the mission. Otherwise, merely speaking to the doctor will suffice.

Walkthrough[]
The Clinic Doctor will be talking on the phone about someone sabotaging the Medi-gel Dispensers. If he also complains about someone trying to convince refugees to join Cerberus, go to the section of the walkthrough detailing the version with additional characters; it is a bit more complicated.

Basic Mission[]

Walk around the Docks: Holding Area to find 3 Medi-gel Dispensers. There are 4 dispensers around the docks but you only need to fix 3 before returning to the doctor. Find them just outside Cargo Hold: A on the right, inside Cargo Hold: A immediately to the left, Cargo Hold: C near the clump of batarians and the kiosk for Batarian State Arms, and one in Bay E28 in the corner.
Once you have repaired 3 Medi-gel Dispensers, go back to Cargo Hold: B to talk to the Clinic Doctor. He will thank you for your efforts and fret over being unable to track down the saboteur, and the mission will end.

With Additional Characters[]
If the doctor complained about a Cerberus propagandist, go to Bay E24, on the window side of the area and nearest to the Memorial Wall. There you'll find none other than Conrad Verner.
Conrad admits to preaching about joining Cerberus. Shepard explains that Cerberus just tried to kill the Council and Conrad realizes he made another mistake. You find out his Cerberus contact was the one sabotaging the Medi-gel Dispensers while Conrad was distracting the refugees. 
At the end of the conversation you will receive Conrad's Dark Energy Dissertation, a War Asset that surprisingly has a contribution to the Crucible's construction. If you also imported the following variables from Mass Effect, the dissertation quintuples in asset value. It is all or nothing; skipping even one will forfeit the bonus.

Completed UNC: Asari Writings
Completed Feros: Data Recovery
Purchased the Elkoss Combine armory license

Repair the medi-gel dispensers as in the basic version of the mission, and then talk to the doctor. Doing so triggers a final scene with Conrad and his Cerberus contact. His contact pulls a gun on Shepard and Conrad dives in slow motion in front the Commander attempting to intercept the bullet, providing enough distraction for Shepard to punch the contact in the face. 
If you did the Citadel: Rita's Sister assignment in Mass Effect and got Jenna out of Chora's Den, she had sabotaged the contact's gun, thus saving Conrad's life, and the two wander off together. If not, Conrad is shot for real and killed.

Aftermath[]
Completing this mission allows crates of dextro-amino acid Medi-gel to be shipped out to the Turian Seventh Fleet to help treat fatal wounds. This increases the War Asset's Effective Military Strength.

Trivia[]
When speaking to Conrad, he apologizes if he "ever accused you of pointing a gun at [him] when you didn't actually do that." This is a veiled reference to a known bug in Mass Effect 2. When meeting Conrad on Illium in Mass Effect 2, he accuses Shepard of pointing a gun at him during one of their encounters in Mass Effect, even if Shepard never did this by choosing the Paragon option for that particular encounter (the Renegade option is the one which leads to threatening Conrad with a gun, the Paragon option is more diplomatic). The bug is explained more here.



