



While they were never completely supportive before, it may still be worth contacting the Council and informing them of recent events.

Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Freedom's Progress (mission)

You automatically get the mission upon completion of the Freedom's Progress mission and access to the new Normandy.

Walkthrough[]
When you take command of the new Normandy, there will be a message from Shepard's former commanding officer, David Anderson.
If Shepard saved the Council, the message is:




On the off chance that the rumors are true and you actually are alive, I need you to come and talk to me on the Citadel. A lot has changed in the last two years. You put us/me on the Council, and it's only fair that you be allowed to speak for yourself about what we've been hearing.


If Shepard did not save the Council, the message is:




On the off chance that the rumors are true and you actually are alive, I need you to come and talk to me on the Citadel. A lot has changed in the last two years. You put us/humanity on top, and it's only fair that you be allowed to speak for yourself about what we've been hearing.



Go to the Citadel. Use a Rapid Transit terminal to travel to the Presidium. You will be met at the human embassy by Anderson.


If you saved the Council in Mass Effect, there is a Council meeting underway. If you didn't, the new Council refuses to meet with Shepard. The Council is skeptical about your mission to stop the Collectors from wiping out human colonies. They do not believe that the Reaper threat is real. 
If you saved the Council or if the Council died and Anderson became a Councilor, you can choose to be reinstated as a Spectre. There is no choice if the Council died and Udina became a Councilor. In all cases, Udina shows up late and he will be upset at how Anderson has arranged things without telling him first.

Trivia[]
Sometimes when Anderson is speaking, squad members will appear far away and slide towards the camera, eventually hitting Anderson and sliding around him. Though the bug appears to be harmless, it is unknown why it occurs.
A picture of Ashley Williams or Kaidan Alenko (depending on who died on Virmire in Mass Effect) is supposed to be seen on the Councilor's desk. There are multiple reports, however, of Kaidan's picture always appearing whether he's dead or alive.



