



Dr. Bryson is working on a classified project and needs help. Contact him in his lab on the Citadel.

Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Mass Effect 3: Leviathan

Prerequisite: Priority: Palaven

Check your private terminal for a message from Admiral Hackett ordering Shepard to assist Dr. Garret Bryson as soon as possible.




Urgent message from Admiral Hackett
Commander, there's an Alliance researcher working on the Citadel named Dr. Garret Bryson. I need you to meet with him right away.

Dr. Bryson has uncovered important new information about Reapers that could have a direct bearing on the war. I'm officially directing you to support his efforts at the first possible opportunity. Please visit Bryson's laboratory on the Citadel at once.





Obtaining this mission starts the Mass Effect 3: Leviathan mission chain.

Preparation[]
This is a noncombat mission, and is essentially one giant cutscene serving as an intro to the next mission. You will have EDI around to assist and the only preparation you could be concerned with is what outfit will she be wearing.
This mission and the subsequent ones are available as long as you have access to the Citadel.

Walkthrough[]
Travel to the Citadel. The location Dr. Bryson's Lab becomes available once this mission is obtained, so go there to begin this mission. On the Galaxy Map, this mission is labelled "Meet Dr. Bryson".


The first few moments is introductions between Shepard and Dr. Bryson. He works for Task Force Aurora and their mandate is investigating myths and legends about the Reapers. You have opportunities to inquire about his mission and steer the conversation at no gain in morality points. Most of the team are out chasing leads, and Bryson beckons his assistant Derek Hadley for data on something called "Leviathan". Before Bryson can reveal more about this latest discovery, however, Hadley shoots him dead. 
Hadley turns his pistol on you. A Paragon interrupt presents itself - taking or not taking it is purely dependent on player opinion, you won't die either way. Hadley is subdued, and C-Sec is contacted and arrives at the scene shortly afterward. EDI also comes in and helps sort through Dr. Bryson's files.
You now turn to interrogate Hadley, who has no memory of recent events. Again, no morality points whatever your conversation choices. Another interrupt, Renegade this time, can be taken, which has consequences on dialogue only.


EDI suggests Hadley has been indoctrinated. Hadley explains his task force's activities, but once the conversation turns to Leviathan he seizes up and cryptically discourages Shepard from pursuing the matter before falling down unconscious. The C-Sec guards then take him out for medical attention.
EDI plays two video logs between Bryson and Hackett from the computer's logs. Bryson claims the Leviathan of Dis uncovered by the batarians is a Reaper, and the thing that killed it is the real "Leviathan". The second log indicates that the Reapers themselves are shadowing Bryson's teams in the search for this "Reaper-killer". Bryson formally requests assistance in tracking it down, and it appears Shepard is the help that was requested.
Upon completion of the playbacks, this mission is considered complete and disappears from the journal. The next mission is triggered.


Mass Effect 3: Leviathan Navigation




Mission Index

Next Mission →




Missions

Citadel: Leviathan I




