


Medical dramaTrue crime special1/2Dr. Chloe Michel is being blackmailed. Someone learned about her dismissal from a previous employer and the circumstances surrounding it. Now, if she doesn't give these people her supplies they're threatening to go public with what they know.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough
3 Mass Effect 2 Consequences
4 Enemies
5 Trivia
6 Cut Content
7 References


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Citadel: Expose Saren

This mission will be available when you return to the Med Clinic after assaulting Chora's Den at the beginning of the game. If you previously saved Dr. Michel from Fist's thugs, she will thank you for the rescue, and you will have to leave and return to unlock it. Upon entering, you will overhear Dr. Michel being threatened, at which point you can offer to help. Even if you didn't previously save Michel from Fist's thugs, you will still remark that every time you come to her clinic she's in trouble.
It is not necessary to have saved Dr. Michel previously or become a Spectre to unlock this assignment.
Note:  If you return to the Med Clinic and no option to help Dr. Michel is offered, leave the clinic and return to Fist's office inside Chora's Den. The door control appears red, but will open upon activation. You may then leave and go back to the clinic where Dr. Michel will be posed to start the assignment.

Walkthrough[]

Dr. Michel explains she is being blackmailed; the demand is for medical supplies to be delivered to Morlan, a salarian shop owner that can be found in the Lower Markets. She is at risk of losing her license if her past is uncovered. You can offer to deliver them for her and uncover the blackmailer.
Go to the Markets and speak to Morlan about Dr. Michel. After a brief conversation, the real blackmailer, a krogan, steps in and says "I told Banes you'd screw this up." The krogan then confronts you, and whatever you choose yields corresponding morality points and consequences.

Choosing "You should reconsider." (Charm skill level 6) results in 8 Paragon points.
Choosing "Let's work this out." results in 2 Paragon points and a fight.
Choosing "No deal." results in a fight.
Choosing "Kill him." results in 2 Renegade points and a fight.
Choosing "Talk and you're dead!" (Intimidate skill level 3) results in 9 Renegade points.
Return to Dr. Michel; she will give you a discount on her medical goods, and pay about twice the price of anything you sell to her. There is also then the option to ask her about Armistan Banes. Banes is a figure central to the assignment UNC: Missing Marines.

Mass Effect 2 Consequences[]
If completed successfully, in Mass Effect 2, Shepard will receive an email from Dr. Michel in which she expresses how happy she is to hear that the Commander is alive, and asks if Shepard and Garrus can drop by for a visit.

Enemies[]
Blackmailer (Optional)
Trivia[]
After dealing with the krogan, Morlan's opening greeting changes from "Hello there. Welcome to Morlan's famous shop. You want many good supplies, yes?" to "Yes, human. You need something, yes?".
Cut Content[]





The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

The dialogue file containing the blackmail discussion between the krogan and Michel also includes a number of unused voicelines which point to the blackmailer having appeared in person at the clinic.[1]
Like several other Citadel quests, this assignment bears a more than passing resemblance to a cut sub-plot: Citadel: A Friend of a Friend, wherein someone named Laz antagonizes the doctor.
References[]

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Citadel Voicelines#sta60_threatens_doctor





