


It starts and ends hereBeing a Spectre is basically an all-access pass to lots of places1/2Emily Wong has approached you again and asked you to help with her next investigation by planting a bug at the Citadel Traffic Control Station.
Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Citadel: Reporter's Request

This assignment can only be obtained if you completed Wong's first request. She is waiting at the Citadel Tower just down the steps from the Council's audience room, wearing a different dress than when you met her for the first time. The assignment is available during your second visit to the Citadel. That is to say, you need to complete one of the core missions before it is available.
You must agree to help when the choices are given. Otherwise, Wong apologizes for bothering you and goes away for good, leaving no other way to acquire the assignment.

Walkthrough[]
Wong explains she is planning to do a story on overworked traffic controllers. She needs audio and visual evidence for her story, so she has prepared a bug and asks you to plant it in the traffic control center of C-Sec. Wong asserts that the bug is completely harmless, and seems sincere in her motivations for safer air traffic worker conditions.
You can do this assignment in two major ways: actually plant the bug, or not. Either way you have to return to her for completing the assignment. Morality points are awarded through most outcomes, along with XP and credits.

If you agree to plant the bug, go into the C-Sec Academy and put it in the "inconspicuous location" near the keeper that is in the control room up the stairs. Speak to Emily afterward for the rewards.
Choosing "It's a good cause." or "You're welcome." nets you 2 Paragon points, XP, and credits.
Choosing "This was the last time." gets you only the XP and credits, no Paragon points.
If you haven't planted the bug yet the next time you talk to Emily, you can assure her you're working on it or abort the assignment. If you have the requisite Charm/Intimidate points, you can justify why not, or just troll Emily and claim you planted it but it was quickly discovered.

If you tell her not to hold her breath, you drop the assignment, resulting in assignment completion and no rewards of any kind.
You can tell her that you have changed your mind and either claim the controllers may lose their jobs or accuse her of chasing after ratings. You will complete the assignment with 8 Paragon points, XP, and credits (the same amount you would get if you planted the bug). This requires 4 ranks of Charm.
Fooling Emily by claiming you planted the bug when you really didn't gets you 9 Renegade points, the same amount of XP and credits as the Paragon route, and +10 omni-gel. This requires 5 ranks of Intimidate.
Aftermath[]
An elevator news report can be heard if you planted the bug as agreed, or refused to do it on grounds of people losing their jobs.


Emily Wong News Reports Navigation


← Previous Assignment

Assignment Index




Citadel: Reporter's Request

Assignments






