






This article is about the preamble mission for the Mass Effect 3: Omega DLC. For the missions on the Citadel in Mass Effect 3, see Aria: Blood Pack, Aria: Blue Suns, or Aria: Eclipse.


Aria has requested a private meeting. Find her at Dock 42 of the Citadel.

Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Mass Effect 3: Omega

Prerequisite: Priority: Palaven

Aria sends two emails: one signifying you have the DLC installed, and another to begin the mission chain proper. The first email is received after the primarch's retrieval from Menae, and the second after you've spoken to Aria at least once at Purgatory Bar. Reading the first email is optional, while reading the second email activates the mission in the Journal.




Omega: Come see meFrom: Aria T'Loak
Subject: Come see me

Shepard, I have something important to discuss with you. It's sensitive, so we'll need privacy. I'll arrange for that soon. In the meantime, come see me on the Citadel in the aptly named Purgatory. I have a few ideas for your war.





Omega: It's timeFrom: Aria T'Loak
Subject: It's time

Shepard, I'm ready to discuss that pet project I mentioned when we spoke in Purgatory. Come to Dock 42 on the Citadel. A batarian named Bray will be waiting.


Walkthrough[]
Travel to the Citadel and select Dock 42 when docking. You will meet with Bray, one of Aria's batarian guards, then board a skycar with Aria and discuss her plan to retake Omega from Cerberus.


Aria takes you on a skycar joyride around the Presidium for privacy reasons due to the sensitive nature of the upcoming operation. She has assembled a fleet to punch through the Cerberus ships guarding Omega, although the real war will be fought on foot through the station.
She introduces you to the leader of the occupation, Oleg Petrovsky. If you ask for details, she doesn't have much intel on the enemy boots on the ground, but she does know secrets on Omega that you can exploit once you're there. Respond how you will, there are no morality points given for this mission. She promises to give you the troops and supplies you need to win the Reaper war in exchange for your help in retaking Omega, the only caveat being that she wants you solo, without any of your present squadmates backing you up. Just you and Aria fighting through the streets of Omega, while her troops engage the bulk of enemy forces elsewhere.
Afterward, the skycar returns to one of the docking bays to drop you and Bray off. Aria leaves the coordinates of her fleet to Bray for when you're ready to do this war. She also advises discretion: not a word of this to anyone while you're on the Citadel. Shepard will be automatically returned to the Normandy SR-2 at the conclusion of this mission.


Mass Effect 3: Omega Navigation




Mission Index

Next Mission →




Missions

Omega: Aria T'Loak (Mass Effect 3)




