


The Normandy is due for retrofits, and the crew has earned shore leave. Bring the Normandy to the Citadel and visit Admiral Anderson's apartment.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Preparation
3 Walkthrough

3.1 Personal Apartment
3.2 Sushi Bar




Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Mass Effect 3: Citadel

Prerequisite: Priority: The Citadel II

Check your private terminal and read the following message from Admiral Hackett to activate the mission.




Priority: Citadel Shore Leave
From: Admiral Hackett

Commander Shepard,

I'm ordering the Normandy into dry dock on the Citadel for much needed repairs. She's seen a lot of action lately and needs a little TLC.

A small army of techs will take care of the details once you arrive, so let's get your crew out of there. You're all on shore leave: that's an order. We need everybody at their best. 

One more thing: Admiral Anderson has an apartment on the Wards. Head over there when you arrive. I hear it's a nice place.

Admiral Hackett




Preparation[]
When you depart for Admiral Anderson's apartment, this launches the main line of missions of the Citadel DLC. Citadel: Party and Silversun strip content is not part of the main storyline and can be done at your own leisure afterwards. The Citadel DLC content will no longer be available once you start Act 3 with Priority: Cerberus Headquarters. 
Be aware that just as in the main game, if you have not recruited Kaidan/Ashley, Javik or Tali into the squad (i.e. recruited the Virmire survivor after Priority: The Citadel II, finished Priority: Eden Prime, and completed Priority: Perseus Veil, respectively) they won't be available as squadmates for these missions either.
Warning:  You will have access to armor lockers and weapon benches at certain points, but any other preparations, such as purchases or power selections, cannot be made once you dock at the Personal Apartment.
Additionally, the next mission starts immediately after this one, and it thrusts you into a combat situation where any armor or weapon customization is irrelevant. At this point, the only thing you can do to boost your survivability for the next mission is to prep on the Normandy before landing: redeem any unclaimed bonuses from the Intel Terminal, customize your bonus power, and/or reset your skill distributions at the Normandy's med bay if necessary. It's recommended that you spec Shepard's class passive for the maximum possible weight capacity, as the next mission slaps Shepard with a weight capacity penalty. If you're used to carrying a weapon loadout with a large bonus to recharge speeds in combat, you'll be dealing with slower power recharge times (see the next mission's walkthrough page for more information). 
Customize yourself to deal with shields efficiently: Energy Drain or Lash with the shield piercing evolution work well. If you possess Disruptor Ammo, it should be maximized for both ammo capacity and damage, as you'll be relying heavily on your weapon, but ammo will be limited. Defense Matrix or Fortification are useful defensive powers as always, especially Defense Matrix for its shield-restoring purge which can be even more valuable than usual in the next mission. Dominate, if unlocked, can work as a useful distraction tool as well, though it has a fairly long recharge time. Grenade powers can also be quite useful for the next mission in particular, as they have no recharge time and refills will be plentiful.

Walkthrough[]
Personal Apartment[]
Upon arriving at the Citadel, select the Personal Apartment option to travel to Anderson's personal apartment on the Citadel. Once you arrive, Anderson will contact you from Earth and he turns the apartment over to Shepard, saying that he no longer needs it.
Take some time and explore the apartment as it is quite spacious. After a short while an automated voice will notify you of receiving a message and the computer in the study will start beeping. This can be ignored. Once you are ready, head over to the Private Terminal on the ground floor in the back where you will have a message from Joker waiting.




Dinner at sushi place on me!
Hey Shepard,

I've got a few things I wanted to go over with you. With the Normandy in dry dock, I figured we could meet up at that Ryuusei sushi place down in the Wards. I hear it's the best.

Joker




Once you are ready, leave the apartment, walk down the hall and use the Elevator to travel to the wards.

Sushi Bar[]

After leaving Shepard’s new apartment, a taxi will be shown flying through the Citadel and into the wards. Once Shepard arrives, there is a queue, but the host notices Shepard and lets the Commander bypass the line, saying that the table is waiting. Joker and Shepard wave to each other. Head into the back corner of the restaurant and talk to Joker. There are no other interactions in the restaurant save for a brief chat with the host and the bartender each, though there are some amusing conversations between patrons you can listen in on.
Joker comments about the ambiance and the long line outside, nodding to where an Alliance soldier in dress uniform is trying to get Shepard's attention. Shepard then changes the subject to the dry docking of the Normandy. Joker expresses reluctance in letting "shifty aerospace engineers" have their hands on the ship, and you can either remind him it's shore leave or agree with him for morality points. 


After the small talk, Joker asks why Shepard invited him here, but the Spectre replies that Joker sent the invitation. Their confusion is interrupted by the soldier outside, who has finally broken through the host's defensive line.
When she reaches the table, she introduces herself as Staff Analyst Maya Brooks of Alliance intelligence, and proclaims that someone is trying to kill Shepard. Joker makes note of the fact that Shepard is already being targeted by multiple organizations, and that it isn't news. Brooks restates that the group she is referring to are new people and that they are hacking Shepard's account, communications, and are targeting the Spectre personally. You must offer a response at this, either inquisitive or annoyed, again for morality points.
Shepard then tells Brooks to calm down after she tells a story about the last time she guessed at intel and tells her to start from the beginning.


Mass Effect 3: Citadel Navigation




Mission Index

Next Mission →




Missions

Citadel Wards: Ambush




