


Pay the seedy bar a visitRecruit a potential squadmate1/2Garrus Vakarian, a C-Sec officer, might be able to help you against Saren.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Asking Around
2.2 The Med Clinic


3 Mass Effect 2 Consequences
4 Enemies
5 Cut Content
6 References


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Citadel: Expose Saren

The mission is automatically obtained during the brainstorming session after the Citadel Council hearing.

Walkthrough[]
Asking Around[]
There are two ways to track down Garrus. The default is through Harkin. He may know where Garrus is, and the human is known to be a barfly at Chora's Den. Head down there, off the Lower Markets in the Wards. Using the Rapid Transit terminal is recommended, as it deposits you to within walking distance of the bar.


When you get near the Den, you will be attacked by two Assassins. Use the walls for cover during the skirmish. However, they love trying to flank you, and considering your low health at this point, take them out before they do the same to you.
Once the attackers are down, head into the Den, talk to Ashley and Kaidan for some interesting dialogue, then go to the back where Harkin is sitting. Note: If you haven't spoken to Barla Von yet, or gone to C-Sec Academy, then before you can speak with Harkin you can see Urdnot Wrex making threats against Fist, the Den's owner, and the Krogan Bouncer telling Wrex off. Wrex brushes aside your squad as he leaves. You can talk to the bouncer, but he isn't in the mood. 
Harkin is a chatty fellow (even more so if Shepard is female), and he makes various claims about Captain Anderson: that he used to be a Spectre, but was kicked out for botching his trial mission. You can discuss this later with Anderson, but keep pressing Harkin and he will eventually direct you to Garrus. He heard that Dr. Michel at the Med Clinic has some information related to Saren and he went to go see her. Note:  When leaving the club your squadmates will have some things to say about Harkin's revelations. This may overlap with scripted events in Citadel: Rita's Sister, so do one or the other first, not at the same time.
The second method of tracking down Garrus is at the conclusion of Citadel: Wrex if you did that one first, where Wrex mentions the turian's last known location. There will be no need to speak to Harkin in this scenario (the journal section is checked automatically), and the Assassins supposedly waiting outside Chora's Den will no longer be there.

The Med Clinic[]

Make a break for the clinic, and once you open the door, there are apparently some of Fist’s thugs threatening the good doctor, while Garrus is hiding nearby, waiting for an opportunity to take them out. The thugs ask if the doctor told Garrus about the quarian and she says she hasn’t. The thugs take notice of Shepard and the squad, and Garrus takes advantage of the opportunity to put a hole in one of the thugs' heads. Then he rounds the corner and the thugs take cover. 
There are three to four thugs apart from the dead one: two visible in the cutscenes, and the rest hidden at the back of the room. Use the cover from the entrance to take out the first one then move around the corner to take out the other two. There is an explosive crate near the both of them. If you have Overload, then use it on the crate for more of an effect. Usually the cover to the right will be knocked over by the explosion, making taking out the second thug easy. The others sometimes remain content hiding behind cover and crates so send in your squadmates to finish them off.
Tip: You may wish to make a permanent save point after the area is clear, as talking to Garrus may lead to one of the few opportunities to change the composition of your squad at this point in the game. 
Talk to Garrus and Dr. Michel, who says the thugs were sent by Fist. Apparently, Fist is trying to hunt down an injured quarian fugitive that she treated, and eventually Michel remembers that the quarian had some sort of information about the geth. Garrus surmises that the quarian has information linking the geth to Saren, which is why Fist is trying to silence her. Garrus demands to join your squad to help you take down both Fist and Saren. If he's questioned as to why he wants to go up against a fellow turian, Garrus vehemently states that Saren is a traitor and a disgrace to his people. 
If you haven't recruited Wrex, Garrus will inevitably become your team's newest member at the end of your conversation. Garrus mentions that the Shadow Broker hired the krogan to deal with Fist and that you should probably seek his help as well. You will then be able to change your squad.
However, if Wrex has joined you already, you have the option to turn down Garrus's request to join you, stating that you don't trust him. If you change your mind and want to let Garrus join you, he will remain in the med clinic up until you deal with Fist in Chora's Den. If you deal with Fist without recruiting Garrus, he can be found at C-Sec Academy, his place of employment, waiting by the elevator leading up to Dock 422 where the Normandy is berthed. You can't avoid talking to him if you try to use the elevator; he tells you he's impressed that you took down Fist. Garrus reveals he was so disgusted by being unable to do anything meaningful to stop Saren at his current post that he quit C-Sec. He still wants to join your mission, expressing frustration at being hamstrung by C-Sec's rules and red tape, noting that you were able to get the job done without any bureaucratic nonsense getting in your way. 
You can either relent and allow Garrus to join you, or continue to refuse him. If you don't let him join you, he will wait leaning against a wall at C-Sec Academy for most of the remainder of the game, where you can recruit him to your mission at any time.

Mass Effect 2 Consequences[]
If you never recruit Garrus, he still shows up on Omega where you will recruit him to your team to stop the Collectors. Beyond some differences in dialogue in various conversations, there aren't actually a lot of serious consequences to not recruiting him in the first game. In fact, there are several points where Garrus references "old times" as though he was a member of your team in the mission to stop Saren. You can also ask the Illusive Man about Garrus's whereabouts shortly after your revival. 

Enemies[]
Assassin (optional)
Thug
Cut Content[]





The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

An alternative version of Garrus' introductory cutscene at the clinic had Garrus shout "Let her go!" instead of Shepard.[1]
The assassins in front of Chora's Den have a few unused lines.[2]
References[]

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Citadel Voicelines#sta60_garrus_doctor

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Citadel Voicelines#sta60_assassin_ambush





