







A fan has requested a special match. Complete a fight against the toughest Reaper enemies in the Armax Arsenal Arena for charity.
Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Citadel Docks: Retake the Normandy

Following the conclusion of Shepard's identity theft crisis, the Armax Arsenal Arena opens up along with the rest of Silversun Strip. After completing some matches in the arena, check the Combat Sim Controls to read the following e-mail:




Make a wish come true
From: Manava T'Khanna

Dear Commander,

I hope you'll give me a minute of your time, because I'm not a fundraiser. I'm a parent. My daughter Lati was diagnosed with a cerebral tumor a year ago today. After endless tests, the doctors finally went in with microsurgery machines and removed the bad tissue. Her outlook is positive, but the recovery has been slow. She doesn't have full use of her limbs.

Lati wanted to be a huntress when she grew up, but she's afraid that the closest she will come is watching the games in the Citadel combat simulators. When she heard Commander Shepard was playing, she instantly knew what she wanted: to go to the Citadel and see you live. A small charity called Help a Dream brought her here, and now we want to make one small request: that you fight the toughest Reapers in the simulator and dedicate the match to Help a Dream.

Thank you so much. We'll be watching.




Walkthrough[]
Set the simulator to "Reapers" and "Super Elite." The "Reaper Combat Set" is a silver level prize, while the "Super Elite" enemy set is a gold level prize; both will need to be purchased with prior winnings. Then simply complete the simulation. You are allowed any squadmates and any modifiers. Since most challenges are not mutually exclusive, you could conceivably finish other arena challenges at the same time, e.g. Citadel Arena: Prothean Challenge and/or Citadel Arena: Medi-Gel Challenge.
After doing so, check the terminal for the following e-mail:




RE: Make a wish come true
From: Manava T'Khanna

Dear Commander,

Thank you. My daughter always says you aren't just a soldier... you're a hero. Now I know what the difference is.

We'll never forget you or what you did for us.







