


Cerberus codes out in the open during a raid on an Alliance baseAs always, all roads lead to the Citadel1/2
A C-Sec officer needs updated ciphers to break Cerberus codes. Find the ciphers and deliver them to him at the Citadel embassy.
Alternative journal entry:
Cerberus encryption algorithms were recovered from Onteron [sic]. Find someone on the Citadel who can use them.

Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough
3 Bugs
4 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Priority: The Citadel II

Prerequisite: N7: Communication Hub

Overhear turian Officer Dellk in the Citadel Embassies. Dellk stands in front of a terminal at the end of the corridor, past the Earth Councilor office.
If you never heard from Dellk in his corner of the Embassies, the ciphers and the mission's journal entry can be acquired directly at Ontarom.

Walkthrough[]
The encryption algorithms are at a terminal on the mission N7: Communication Hub, which becomes available only after Priority: Thessia. That is a gap of at least 6 Priority missions from earliest mission acquisition to mission completion - the longest in the game - so you can backburner this for quite a bit if you acquired the mission early.


You'll be facing north at the start of the parent mission. Directly to your east you should see a comm tower, blocked by a tubular wall. The terminal is behind that wall. Go down the nearby ramp to the dirt floor and up the ramp to that area and you should see it.
If the codes were not obtained during this mission, they become available at the Spectre Requisitions terminal for 1,000 credits (900 credits if at the maximum 10% discount).
Once the codes are obtained, return to Dellk and talk to him. Finishing the mission will reward you with 5 Reputation, 30 experience, 1,000 credits, and a small boost to the Alliance Fifth Fleet War Asset.

Bugs[]
If you collect the Cerberus codes but are killed before completing the mission, you will lose the codes, but the terminal you get them from will be deactivated as though you already got them. If this happens, you must pay for them at Spectre Requisitions.
To play it safe, get the codes after clearing out the station but before deactivating the third hacking device as your run of the level ends upon doing so.
You may be unable to interact with Dellk after buying the ciphers from the Spectre terminal. Just head to any other Presidium level, then go back to the Embassies and he will be selectable again. Alternatively, saving and reloading the game should fix it as well. This doesn't always work however (Xbox/PC).
Trivia[]
Regardless of how the cipher was acquired, during the handover Shepard claims they were found on a Cerberus engineer instead of on a terminal, as per the instructions given on the Spectre Requisition Terminal.



