



C-Sec Officer Jordan Noles has requested assistance tracking illegal use of batarian diplomatic codes. Consult the Spectre terminal and then locate access points on the Citadel.

Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Priority: The Citadel II

Speak to C-Sec Officer Jordan Noles on the Presidium Commons. She is standing just outside the C-Sec Outpost.

Walkthrough[]
First head to the Spectre area in the Citadel Embassies and read the message about the batarian codes. Click "Enable" while viewing the message. After enabling access, your Citadel map will be updated with the location of the first console. You will go to each console and disable the code used on them. Find the consoles at the following locations and in the following order:

Huerta Memorial Hospital - The right-side lab in Lab Services. Note that the console is accessible from the corridor; no need to actually enter the lab.
Normandy Dock: Bay D24 - Located at the Passenger Lounge.
Docks: Holding Area - At the end of Bay E28.
Note that there are two versions pertaining to how the batarian codes were used: someone used the codes to secure more provisions for the batarians, or they were used in sabotages targeting humans and Alliance military assets on the Citadel. 


When you've disabled the final code at the Docks, someone puts a pistol in the Commander's back. It turns out to be none other than Ka'hairal Balak, if you let him escape in X57: Bring Down the Sky. He will also appear even if the DLC was not completed at all. Infuriated and wanting to take vengeance for the destruction of Bahak (regardless of whether or not you did the Arrival DLC for Mass Effect 2), he blames Shepard for everything that has happened to the batarians. If you let him go in the first game he has been using the codes for petty sabotage, but if you fought him AND left him for dead he has been using the codes for provisions. You can either kill him or pass a Reputation check.
If you do not kill Balak, he leaves, but not before grudgingly committing the batarian fleet to the war. If you kill Balak instead, the Alliance Third Fleet War Asset will have its value decreased.


If you killed Balak or handed him over to the authorities in Bring Down the Sky, Shepard will meet up with Noles in Cargo Hold C, near the Batarian State Arms kiosk (and the preacher who laments about the lost Pillars of Strength). Noles has a batarian in custody, who's also angry about his people's condition and having to steal scraps for refugees. In contrast with Balak, if you completed Arrival, this batarian recognizes your role in it. There's no option to kill this batarian: Noles merely hauls him off if you don't want to (or can't) convince him to rally his people to your cause.
Whatever the previous circumstances, as long as Balak or the unnamed batarian is convinced the batarian fleet is added to your War Assets. You will gain 210 experience  and morality points depending on your choices upon completion of this mission. 
Note:  The Kestrel Helmet becomes available at Batarian State Arms only if you also secured the batarian fleet. If you killed Balak or let Noles take the nameless batarian away without comment, the helmet will not appear at the store.




