


Dying in the middle of nowhere with no certainty your message will be conveyedYet somehow they do, repeatedly, seems to be a convenient motif1/2
A dying krogan has asked that his final message be delivered to an asari merchant named Ereba. Find her in the Citadel and deliver the krogan's message.

Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Attican Traverse: Krogan Team

There is an interactable body of a krogan just off the main path about halfway through the mission to Utukku, behind some webbing. It is right before a one-way drop to the second cavernous room you'll encounter.

Walkthrough[]
Take the message to Ereba, who works in Nos Astra Sporting Goods at the Meridian Place Market, located in the Citadel Presidium Commons. Note that Ereba is not listed on your map if you have the message.


The krogan is revealed to be Charr, whose relationship with Ereba may have been influenced by Shepard during Illium: Blue Rose of Illium. Ereba will start crying as she hears Charr's message. You can either leave her to listen, or stay. The message implies that he and Ereba had a child together, if they were convinced to stay together. At the end of the recording, she says she has to go.
Completion of the mission grants you 5 Reputation and 90 experience.

Charr's Final Message[]
If you convinced Ereba to break off with Charr, or never did the optional assignment, it's revealed the krogan's final thoughts are still of her.


“O Blue Rose of Illium, if these humble words reach you, then I have joined my ancestors.

My dream was to be by your side, a weed beside your beauty, twining together in the warm Tuchanka sun.

But though you needed room to grow, still, I will remember the perfume of the scent and the soft touch of your petals.

If my heart could not shelter you from the storm, then let my broken bones build a wall around your garden, so you can grow safe and happy.”



If you convinced Ereba to take Charr back, the message he sends is as follows:


“O Blue Rose of Illium, if these humble words reach you, then I have joined my ancestors.

My dream was to be by your side, a weed beside your beauty, twining together in the warm Tuchanka sun.

But if my last days must be with krannt instead of kindness, still, I will remember the perfume of your scent and the soft touch of your petals.

Let my broken bones build a wall around your garden, so you and the flower we planted together can grow safe and strong.”





