


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
Clan Nakmor is a small tribe of krogan hailing from the Kraddack Wastes of Tuchanka.

Contents

1 Mass Effect 2
2 Mass Effect 3
3 Mass Effect: Andromeda
4 Known Members
5 See Also









“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
A Clan Nakmor representative is present at the Urdnot Camp on Tuchanka to negotiate an alliance with the leader of Clan Urdnot, if Urdnot Wrex is alive.

Mass Effect 3[]
By 2186, the members of Clan Nakmor still in the Milky Way were absorbed into Clan Urdnot and possibly joined the war against the Reapers.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.









“Same shit. Different galaxy.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising follow.




Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
In 2185, most of Clan Nakmor departs the Milky Way galaxy on the Nexus as members of the Andromeda Initiative, along with smaller numbers of krogan from other clans.
Shortly after the Nexus arrived in the Heleus Cluster of the Andromeda galaxy, Initiative members dissatisfied with the Nexus leadership revolted in an event called the Nexus Uprising. While Clan Nakmor was initially neutral, Assistant Director of Colonial Affairs William Spender made a deal with clan leader Nakmor Morda: a role in Nexus leadership for the krogan and a say in its decisions in exchange for quashing the uprising. The krogan fulfilled their side of the bargain, forcing the rebels under Sloane Kelly into exile on Kadara. 
When Director of the Initiative Jarun Tann learned of the deal, he vehemently opposed it, and Spender reneged and disavowed any knowledge of it. Furious, the krogan left the Nexus and founded an independent colony on Elaaden named New Tuchanka. Nakmor Kesh remained behind to supervise the Nexus' ongoing construction and maintain a connection between the station and her people.
Fourteen months after the Nexus' arrival in Heleus, Morda declares herself Overlord of New Tuchanka. She's pitted against Pathfinder Ryder by Jorgal Strux over a Remnant drive core, with both parties convinced the other wanted to use the drive core to create a bomb. Ryder can find the drive core at the Scavenger Flophouse ("Misery") and consequently return to New Tuchanka to expose Strux's treachery. Strux then admits his ambition to undermine Morda and become the new overlord. Morda defeats Strux in combat and banishes him and his underlings from the colony. Afterwards, if Ryder gives Clan Nakmor the Remnant drive core, they allow the Initiative to create an outpost at their colony and rebuild their alliance, otherwise New Tuchanka remains independent.

Known Members[]
Nakmor Drack
Nakmor Kesh
Nakmor Krall - Warlord notable for defeating platoons of turians.
Nakmor Morda - Clan leader and Overlord as of 2819.
Nakmor Qronak - Former clan leader.
See Also[]
Clan Urdnot
Clan Weyrloc



