


The Cocytus Plateau is an uneven patch of elevated land on H-047c. It is bounded to the west by the Lethe Rift, to the south by Acheron Spine, and the Tempest's landing zone to the east.
The Tempest's landing zone is not technically within the bounds of the plateau, though the nearest Forward Station to it is. There are two forward stations in Cocytus Plateau—west of the Tempest, and due southwest from the ship, at the base of the plateau—the one north of the ship lies in unmarked territory. There is also one basic mining zone in the plateau, east of a mining dome and west of both the Tempest and its nearby forward station, as the other basic mining zone east of the ship is also in unmarked territory.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




The mining dome west of the Tempest is an exile operation and is hostile to outsiders. A passcode snippet for the outlaws' main base of operations can be found here, though two more are needed as the file is corrupted.
Also inside the dome is a titanium sample for training Chief Lucan's Geophysics VI as well as a loadout station for changing configurations without needing to return to forward stations or the Tempest.

Missions[]



Heleus Assignments
From the Dust


Additional Tasks
Task: Hitting Rocks for Science

Terminals[]
On a shack inside the mining dome:




Hey, asshole
Don't think flying off to the ass-end of nowhere will save you. You still owe me 80k, and you're going to make good. If I have to cart myself over to that broken dump and shake the credits out of you myself, I will.


You better be making a haul over there. 'Cause when you come back, you've got me to answer to.





Hey…
You left without saying goodbye. You're coming back, right? Did I do something? One second you're telling me I'm the guy for you, we should settle down, try and make the best out of Kadara. The next…


Okay, forget it. You take all the time you need over there. Make your big score, like you wanted. Then you can come back. I'm not going anywhere. I'll be here. Waiting.





DO NOT RESPOND: AUTOMATED RECEIPT
Thank you for your purchase.

ITEMS:

"Asari Melding, Part 5" Qty 1

SUBTOTAL: 50.00 Credits

CONVENIENCE FEE: 2.00 Credits

PLATINUM MEMBERS DISCOUNT: -3.00 Credits

TOTAL: 49.00 Credits


If you have an issue with your purchase, please contact our customer service extranet address. Do not respond to this message.


Trivia[]
Cocytus is the river of wailing in the underworld of Greek mythology.



