






This article is about the Codex for Mass Effect: Andromeda. For the original trilogy Codex, see Codex. For the guide to collecting Codex entries in this game, see Codex Entry Guide (Mass Effect: Andromeda).

The Codex is the focal point for background information within Mass Effect: Andromeda and written from SAM's point-of-view.
The Codex in Mass Effect: Andromeda works similarly to the way it did in the previous games, with some distinct differences. It contains specific information in regards to discoveries or character progression. Some items are appended with new information learned as a result of plot progression, and there are some entries that change depending on choices taken within the game itself (as opposed to entries in the original trilogy dependent on choices made in the preceding game). In Mass Effect 3, the Codex was combined into the journal. In Mass Effect: Andromeda, the Codex is once again separated. 
Please note: These entries are quoted verbatim from the game and should be kept pristine. Edits and non-codex updates should be placed on non-Codex pages relating to the same subject (e.g. don't update the Nomad's Codex article, update the ND1 Nomad article instead). If a codex entry changes as a result of choices taken, subheaders for all choices should be made to account for the changed text. Other static information should be added to their corresponding article.

Codex Entries[]
The Andromeda Initiative
Known Associates
The Initiative
The Nexus
Pathfinders
Ark Species
Asari
Humans
Krogan
Salarians
Turians
Andromeda Species
Angara
Kett
Flora and Fauna
Outlaws
The Remnant
Planets And Locations
Habitat 7
Elaaden
Havarl
The Scourge
Aya
The Andromeda Galaxy
Meridian
H-047c
Eos
Black Hole: H-012 "Ketos"
Voeld
Khi Tasira
Kadara
Technology
Exploration Tools
Research and Development
Settling Heleus
Tech And Biotics
Ships And Vehicles
Ark Paachero
ND1 Nomad
The Tempest
Remnant: Starships
The Verakan
Ark Leusinia
Tempest: ODSY Drive
Tempest: Technology
Tempest: Research Capabilities
Tempest: Stealth System
Ark Natanus
Kett Starships
Tempest: Laboratories
Ark Hyperion



