






This article is about the Codex for the original Mass Effect Trilogy. For the guide to collecting Codex entries in those games, see the Codex Entry Guide. For the Codex in Mass Effect: Andromeda, see Codex (Mass Effect: Andromeda).


The Codex is the focal point for background information within Mass Effect, Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3. In Mass Effect 3, the Codex is integrated into the Journal.
Please note: These entries are quoted verbatim from the game and should be kept pristine. Edits and updates should be placed on non-Codex pages relating to the same subject (e.g. don't update the Mako's Codex entry, update the Mako article instead). 
Please note: For Codex entries with an audio entry, if the audio entry differs from the text entry, then no action should be taken. Text entries are copied verbatim from the game regardless what the audio entry says. For example the text entry for the Thanix Cannon says "[t]he Thanix can fire reliably every five seconds", while the audio entry says, "[t]he Thanix can fire reliably every fifteen seconds". Even though there is a discrepancy between the text and audio entries, the text entry should reflect the text entry from the in-game Codex, not the audio entry.

Contents

1 Primary Codex Entries
2 Secondary Codex Entries
3 Trivia
4 External Links


Primary Codex Entries[]

These consist of 14 subcategories which define different areas of interest within the game that are key to the storyline of Mass Effect.
All Primary Council, Non-Council, and Extinct race entries must be found in order to unlock the Scholar Achievement in the original Mass Effect. Organizations is a subcategory added by Mass Effect 2 and The Reapers and Known Associates subcategories were added in Mass Effect 3. 
The M-597 Ladon exclusive to Wii U versions of Mass Effect 3 sits on its own primary entry.

Aliens: Council Races
Aliens: Extinct Races
Aliens: Non-Council Races
Aliens: Non-Sapient Creatures
Citadel and Galactic Government
Humanity and the Systems Alliance
Known Associates
M-597 Ladon
Organizations
Planets and Locations
Ships and Vehicles
Technology
The Reapers
Weapons, Armor and Equipment
Secondary Codex Entries[]

These consist of 27 subcategories which elaborate further on more specific areas that are defined in the Primary Codex area. While these are not critical to the storyline of the game, they do help expand the perceivable universe that the game encompasses.

Player Tutorials
Personal History Summary
UPDATE: Bring Down the Sky
UPDATE: Pinnacle Station
Aliens: Council Races
Aliens: Extinct Races
Aliens: Non-Council Races
Aliens: Non-Sapient Creatures
Arrival: The Reapers' Secrets
Cerberus Project: Overlord
Citadel and Galactic Government
Humanity and the Systems Alliance
Mass Effect 3: From Ashes
Omega Reclaimed: Omega's Secrets
Organizations
Planets and Locations
Publications
Shadow Games: The Broker's Secrets
Ships and Vehicles
Special Vehicles: The Hammerhead
Technology
The Darkness Breached: Leviathan's Secrets
The Master Thief: Kasumi's Secrets
The Reaper War
The Reapers
The Veteran: Zaeed's Secrets
Weapons, Armor and Equipment
Trivia[]
The primary entries of the Codex are narrated by Neil Ross.
External Links[]
N7 HQ: Codex



