


Finding Codex entries adds to experience and gives greater insight into the game.  The following is a list of every known Codex entry in Mass Effect, along with locations they are found.
Some entries are attainable in multiple ways, but it should still be possible to get all of the entries in a single play-through.
Legendary Edition: In Mass Effect Legendary Edition, codex entries related to cut DLC Pinnacle Station are no longer attainable. The Player Tutorials secondary entry is also no longer available.

See also: Scholar Achievement Guide
Contents

1 Primary
2 Secondary









“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Primary[]


Entry

Location


Aliens: Council Races


Asari


Talk to Embassy Receptionist Saphyria and ask about her personal information; or
complete the cutscene showing Saren's hearing in front of the Citadel Council


Salarians

Complete the cutscene showing Saren's hearing in front of the Citadel Council.


Turians

Available at beginning.


Aliens: Extinct Races


Protheans

Ask Captain Anderson and Nihlus about the Protheans at the first briefing.


Rachni


Ask Avina about the Rachni Wars near the Krogan Monument; or
talk to Yaroslev Tartakovsky in Noveria: The Hot Labs; or
talk to Han Olar about the rachni down in Rift Station's Quarantine and Barracks


Aliens: Non-Council Races


Batarians


Ask Captain Anderson about his past with Saren; or
complete Citadel: Old, Unhappy, Far-Off Things; or
complete Citadel: I Remember Me; or
confront the batarian troopers on Asteroid X57 (Bring Down the Sky).


Elcor


Speak to Ambassador Calyn about the elcor; or
Speak to Petozi on Peak 15.


Geth

Ask Ashley about the geth when you first meet her.


Hanar


Ask Delan about his speech; or
speak to the Preaching Hanar; or
speak to the merchant Opold.


Keepers


Ask Avina near the Citadel Tower about the Keepers; or
speak to Chorban.


Krogan


ask Barla Von about the krogan in C-Sec; or
complete the cutscene showing Wrex talking with Fist's bodyguard at Chora's Den.


Quarians


Talk to Dr. Chloe Michel after you and Garrus rescue her from Fist's thugs; or
ask Wrex about the quarian who contacted Fist.


Volus


Ask Ambassador Din Korlack about the volus; or
Ask Avina about why the volus were the first to be granted an embassy.


Aliens: Non-Sapient Creatures


Husks

Encounter the first Husks at Eden Prime.


Thresher Maws


Examine an Alliance marine after killing a Thresher Maw on Edolus; or
Examine the xenobiological database in the contaminated lab at Peak 15.


Varren


Speak to Davin Reynolds on Feros; or
encounter the varren on Feros without talking to him; or
encounter the batarians and their war beasts on Asteroid X57 (Bring Down the Sky).


Citadel and Galactic Government


Citadel

Finish the cutscene concluding Eden Prime.


Citadel Council

Finish the cutscene after arriving at the Citadel.


Citadel Space

Examine the Galaxy Map.


Spectres


Ask Richard L. Jenkins and Dr. Chakwas about Spectres; or
bring them up in conversation with David Anderson and Nihlus Kryik before Eden Prime.


Humanity and the Systems Alliance


Earth


Examine Earth from the Galaxy Map; or
Received after talking to Finch at the start of the Citadel: Old Friends assignment.


First Contact War


Ask Navigator Pressly about Nihlus at the beginning; or
talk to Ashley on the Normandy (may depend on dialog choices); or
Go to Amazon in the Voyager Cluster, you'll receive the assignment UNC: Espionage Probe and the Codex Entry


Systems Alliance

Available at beginning.


Planets and Locations


Planets: Feros


Received at the handover of the Normandy; or
ask the expat merchant on the Wards about Feros.


Planets: Ilos


Received from Liara after she fully interprets the Ilos vision following Virmire; or
while reaching Ilos.


Planets: Noveria


Received at the handover of the Normandy; or
ask the expat merchant on the Wards about Noveria.


Planets: Virmire

Received after getting the Virmire lead from the Council.


Region: Terminus Systems

Ask Anderson and Nihlus about the Terminus Systems at the first briefing.


Uncharted Worlds


Survey any planet; or
ask Captain Anderson about Artemis Tau.


Ships and Vehicles


FTL Drive

Ask Engineer Adams about the Normandy and then the Tantalus Core after you've taken command.


Military Ship Classifications

Ask Engineer Adams about his personal history after you've taken command of the Normandy.


Normandy

Ask Joker about the Normandy after you've taken command.


Sovereign

Received after speaking to Shiala or Matriarch Benezia.


Space Combat

Examine a gunnery station on the Normandy (near Joker) after completing one mission.


Vehicles: M35 Mako

Examine the Mako in the Normandy's garage.


Technology


Biotics

Ask Doctor Chakwas about Alenko, then L2s.


Computers: Artificial Intelligence (AI)


Examine the data core in the testing ground on Luna; or
examine the console near the entrance to the Synthetic Insights office; or
complete Citadel: Signal Tracking; or
keep talking to Tali'Zorah nar Rayya when she's on board the Normandy.


Computers: Virtual Intelligence (VI)

Speak to any incarnation of Avina on the Presidium.


Element Zero ("Eezo")


Examine the Normandy's drive core; or
speak to Kaidan Alenko.


Mass Effect Fields

Examine the Field Integrity monitor in Normandy Engineering.


Mass Relays

Ask Avina near the Citadel Tower about the Relay Monument.


Omni-tool

Ask the Normandy Requisitions Officer about equipment.


Weapons, Armor and Equipment


Body Armor

Collect body armor from the field.


Kinetic Barriers ("Shields")

Examine Richard L. Jenkins' body after first combat.


Mass Accelerators

Inspect the Normandy weapons while it's docked at the Citadel after you’ve taken command.


Medi-Gel


Activate the medi-gel dispenser in the Normandy sick bay; or
Activate the medi-gel dispenser in the Med Clinic in the Citadel Wards; or
Bypass the medical station in Rift Station's medbay on Noveria (easy decryption)


Small Arms


Speak to Clerk Bosker; or
examine the weapons Ashley is cleaning.

Secondary[]


Entry

Location


Player Tutorials


01: Basic Controls

All tutorial entries are available from the beginning.


02: Combat


03: The Tactics HUD


04: Character Advancement


05: Equipment


06: Armor and Shields


07: Decryption and Electronics


08: The Area Map


09: The Galaxy Map


10: Conversations


11: Vehicle Movement


12: Vehicle Combat


13: Cargo Bay Resources


Personal History Summary


Profile

Available at beginning.


UPDATE: Bring Down the Sky


Technology: Translation

After the first encounter with batarians.


UPDATE: Pinnacle Station


Technology: Combat Simulator

Complete a combat mission at Pinnacle Station.


Technology: Pinnacle Station

Land at Pinnacle Station.


Technology: Prefabricated Structures

Visit Shepard's apartment on Intai'sei.


Aliens: Council Races


Asari: Biology

Pursue a relationship with Liara T'Soni, get this entry after three missions.


Asari: Culture

Ask Liara T'Soni about asari culture after saving her. (May depend on dialog choices.)


Asari: Government

Ask Liara T'Soni about herself after saving her (dependent on dialogue choices).
Pick : "You must get lonely." and then "Why's that?".



Asari: Military Doctrine


Speak to Shiala in Zhu's Hope after completing Feros; or
Hack the "Asari Intel Report" terminal on Virmire


Asari: Religion

Speak to Liara T'Soni after completing two missions.


Salarians: Biology


Speak to Kaidan Alenko after completing three missions.



Salarians: Culture

Hack the Communications Relay near Liara in the salarian camp on Virmire (Decryption on Shepard required).


Salarians: Government

Speak to Captain Kirrahe.


Salarians: League of One

Find any League of One insignia.


Salarians: Military Doctrine


Hack the "Salarian Intel Report" terminal on Saren's base (easy decryption); or
Received after speaking to Captain Kirrahe.


Salarians: Special Tasks Group

Ask the Council about STG during the pre-Virmire briefing.


Turians: Biology

Ask Garrus about Dr. Saleon after two missions.


Turians: Culture

Ask Garrus about his C-Sec background after completing one mission. (May depend on dialog choices.)


Turians: Government

Talk to Garrus after three missions.


Turians: Military Doctrine

*Ask Garrus about his C-Sec background after completing one mission. (May depend on dialog choices.); or
Hack the Turian Intel Report on a terminal (easy decryption) in Cell Block B on Virmire during Virmire: Assault


Turians: Religion

Talk to Garrus after completing three missions and Garrus: Find Dr. Saleon. (Must have successfully convinced him to either be more Paragon or more Renegade)


Turians: The Unification War

Find any turian insignia.


Aliens: Extinct Races


Protheans: Beacon

Ask Liara T'Soni about herself, after completing one mission.


Protheans: Cipher

Received after Liara touches Shepard's mind or after speaking to Shiala.


Protheans: Data Discs

Find any Prothean data disc.


Protheans: Mars Ruins

Examine Mars from the Galaxy Map.


Aliens: Non-Council Races


Geth: Armatures

Fight a Geth Armature.


Geth: Hoppers

Fight a Geth Hopper.


Krogan: Biology

Speak to Urdnot Wrex after completing Wrex: Family Armor.


Krogan: Culture

Ask Urdnot Wrex about his family, and his armor after two missions.


Krogan: Genophage


Ask Urdnot Wrex about the genophage while aboard the Normandy; or
received after speaking to Captain Kirrahe on Virmire.


Krogan: Krogan Rebellions

Ask Avina about the Rebellions at the Krogan Monument.


Krogan: Military Doctrine

Talk to Urdnot Wrex after three missions.


Quarians: Economy

Ask Tali'Zorah nar Rayya about ship technology after you've taken command of the Normandy.


Quarians: Government

Ask Tali'Zorah nar Rayya about the quarians after you've taken command of the Normandy.


Quarians: Law and Defense

Talk to Tali'Zorah nar Rayya after two missions (don't complete Tali and the Geth before).


Quarians: Migrant Fleet


Ask Tali about her father and mother; or
ask Tali'Zorah nar Rayya about ship technology after you've taken command of the Normandy.


Quarians: Pilgrimage

Ask Tali'Zorah nar Rayya about her Pilgrimage at the initial meeting.


Quarians: Religion

Talk to Tali'Zorah nar Rayya after two missions (don't complete Tali and the Geth before).


Citadel and Galactic Government


Citadel Conventions

Examine the Diplomatic Archive terminal in the diplomats' office at the Embassies.


Citadel Station: Citadel Security Services (C-Sec)


Ask Executor Pallin about C-Sec; or
examine the 'Welcome to C-Sec' sign behind the docking bay elevator; or
talk to Garrus after you've taken command of the Normandy.


Citadel Station: Presidium Ring


Speak to Embassy Receptionist Saphyria about your location; or
ask Barla Von about the Citadel, and then the Presidium; or
interact with the "Welcome to the Presidium" terminal in between the Financial District and the bridge to the Embassies.


Citadel Station: Serpent Nebula

Examine the Serpent Nebula from the CitadelWards.


Citadel Station: Statistics

Finish the cutscene concluding Eden Prime.


Citadel Station: Wards

Ask Barla Von about the Citadel, and then the Wards.


Treaty of Farixen

Examine terminals in the diplomats' office at the Embassies.


Humanity and the Systems Alliance


Genetic Engineering


Feign interest on obtaining Binary Helix services to Rafael Vargas on Noveria; or
explore Rebekah and Michael Petrovsky's problem in Citadel: Family Matter.


Human Diplomatic Relations


Ask Navigator Pressly about his concerns over the aliens after you've taken command of the Normandy; or
ask Ashley Williams about her concerns over the aliens after completing one mission. (May depend on dialog choices.)


Systems Alliance: Geological Survey

Survey any mineral deposit, either from space or planet-side.


Systems Alliance: Military Doctrine

Talk to Ashley Williams after two missions.


Systems Alliance: Military Jargon

Examine NAVMANUAL 1.4.1 on the Normandy's command deck.


Systems Alliance: Military Ranks

Examine the personnel manual in the captain's office aboard the Normandy after you've taken command.


Systems Alliance: N7

Examine Shepard's locker on the Normandy's habitation deck.


Terra Firma Party

Speak to Ashley Williams or Charles Saracino.


Timeline

Available at beginning.


Planets and Locations


Stations: Arcturus Station

Speak to Joker about his history.


Stations: Gagarin Station

Ask Kaidan Alenko about his training after completing one mission.


Ships and Vehicles


FTL Drive: Appearance

Look out of the viewport on the Normandy's bridge.


FTL Drive: Drive Charge

Examine core charge status in Normandy engineering after completing one mission.


Space Combat: Combat Endurance

Examine the heat load monitor on the Normandy's command deck after finishing one mission.


Space Combat: General Tactics


Access the computer terminal on the second floor of the main base on Xawin; or
Examine NAVMANUAL 0.7.4 in Udina's Office after finishing one mission.


Space Combat: Planetary Assaults

Ask Ashley about her family history after a third mission.


Space Combat: Trans-Relay Assaults

Speak to the Prothean VI Vigil on IIos.


Starships: Carriers

Speak to Rear Admiral Mikhailovich and select "We need to kick ass." (requires 9 Intimidate points).


Starships: Crew Considerations

Examine the crew sleeper pods on the Normandy's habitation deck after you've taken command.


Starships: Cruisers

Examine a second tracking terminal in C-Sec Traffic Control.


Starships: Dreadnought


Watch the Destiny Ascension pass the window on the Wards; or
overhear the conversation between a volus and a human about the Ascension in the Upper Wards.


Starships: Fighters

Examine a tracking terminal in C-Sec Traffic Control.


Starships: Frigates


Examine a third tracking terminal in C-Sec Traffic Control; or
examine the Geth Dropship's claw near the hydraulic door on Feros; or
view a Geth Dropship on Casbin, Rayingri, Therum, or during the retaking of the Citadel.


Starships: Heat Management

Examine a second heat load monitor on the Normandy's command deck after completing one mission.


Starships: Sensors


Ask Navigator Pressly about the Normandy's stealth systems; or
Access the navigation computer in the cockpit of the MSV Cornucopia.


Starships: Thrusters

Inspect the Normandy thrusters while it's docked at the Citadel after you’ve taken command.


Vehicles: Combat Drones

Examine the data port inside one of the Rogue VI stations.


Weapons: Ablative Armor

Inspect the Normandy hull while it's docked at the Citadel after you’ve taken command.


Weapons: Disruptor Torpedoes


Examine the Gravitic Weapons Research terminal in Peak 15's cafeteria; or
on Virmire, examine Rana Thanoptis' terminal in room leading to Saren's personal laboratory.


Weapons: GARDIAN

Examine the point defense systems on the Normandy command deck after completing one mission.


Weapons: Javelin

Speak to the Prothean VI Vigil on IIos.


Technology


Biotics: Biotic Amps

Ask Doctor Chakwas about Alenko, then L2s.


Biotics: Life as a Biotic

Ask Kaidan Alenko about his training after completing two missions (dependent on dialogue choices). When he mentions Conatix, select "Tell me about it." or "Angry?".


Biotics: Training

Ask Kaidan Alenko about his training after completing one mission.


Communications

Examine the FTL Comm Link in the Normandy comm room.


Communications: Administration


Examine the extranet terminal in the freighter on Feros; or
examine the public extranet terminal at the Port Hanshan Plaza, in the lounge area with the inaccessible elevator between the elevator to the hotel and Opold's shop; or
examine the extranet terminal near Officer Eddie Lang in the Wards.


Communications: Methodology


Examine the public terminal at Zhu's Hope; or
examine the server node at the ExoGeni facility.


Credits ("Creds")

Ask Barla Von about what he does.


Weapons, Armor and Equipment


Upgrades

Collect any upgrade from the field.





Mass Effect Guides




Completion

Walkthrough • Morality • Experience • Systems • Mako • Codex


Achievements

Completionist • Rich Achievement •  Party Member Achievements  Scholar Achievement • Weapon and Ability Achievements


Classes

Adept • Engineer • Infiltrator • Sentinel • Soldier • Vanguard


Other

Squad Members • PC Tweaks • Merchants




