


Contents

1 Steven Hackett
2 David Anderson

2.1 Anderson Chosen Councilor
2.2 Udina Chosen Councilor


3 Dr. Liara T'Soni
4 EDI
5 Garrus Vakarian
6 Kaidan Alenko
7 Ashley Williams
8 Tali'Zorah
9 Dr. Mordin Solus
10 Jacob Taylor
11 Jeff "Joker" Moreau
12 Miranda Lawson
13 Dr. Karin Chakwas


Steven Hackett[]





Audio: Steven Hacketthttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Hackett_Codex.ogg

Admiral Steven Hackett is a decorated officer in the Systems Alliance, currently assigned to Arcturus Station on the far side of the Sol Relay. In the battle for the Citadel, Admiral Hackett commanded the Fifth Fleet. Following that victory, he was promoted to head of the Alliance military.
Hackett was born to a single mother in Buenos Aires in 2134. When his mother died in the pandemic of 2146, he was placed in the Advanced Training Academy for Juveniles, where his superior talents in science and leadership quickly became evident.
Hackett enlisted in 2152, volunteering for high-risk missions to colonize space beyond the Sol Relay. He was commissioned as a second lieutenant on Arcturus Station in 2156, and soon proved his ability in the First Contact War. His rare ascent from enlisted man to admiral remains an Alliance legend.


David Anderson[]
Anderson Chosen Councilor[]





Audio: David Andersonhttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Codex_ME3_-_Anderson_(chosen_Councilor).ogg

Admiral David Edward Anderson is a career military officer in the Systems Alliance Navy. Born in London in 2137, he later moved to Arcturus Station and became the first graduate of the Alliance's now-renowned N7 marine program. Anderson is one of the Alliance's most decorated Special Forces operatives and served with honor during the First Contact War. He was the original captain of the SSV Normandy before relinquishing command to his XO, Commander Shepard.
After the Alliance victory in the Battle of the Citadel, Anderson briefly served as the Citadel's first human councilor. He soon became embroiled in a Cerberus plot to abduct his friend Kahlee Sanders, however, and learned that he was unable to live a life without action. He stepped down as councilor and returned to the military to prepare for the Reaper invasion. The Alliance Parliament named Donnel Udina as his successor.

Udina Chosen Councilor[]





Audio: David Andersonhttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Codex_ME3_-_Anderson_(Udina_promoted_to_Councilor).ogg

Admiral David Edward Anderson is a career military officer in the Systems Alliance Navy. Born in London in 2137, he later moved to Arcturus Station and became the first graduate of the Alliance's now-renowned N7 marine program. Anderson is one of the Alliance's most decorated Special Forces operatives and served with honor during the First Contact War. He was the original captain of the SSV Normandy before relinquishing command to his XO, Commander Shepard.
After the Alliance victory in the Battle of the Citadel, Anderson was promoted to Admiral and chosen to advise Citadel Councilor Donnel Udina on military matters. Anderson later became embroiled in a Cerberus plot to abduct his friend Kahlee Sanders, but he foiled the abduction and returned to duty to prepare for the Reaper invasion.


Dr. Liara T'Soni[]





Audio: Dr. Liara T'Sonihttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Liara_Codex.ogg

Dr. Liara T'Soni is an asari information broker with a background in scientific research on Prothean technology. Born on Thessia in 2077, she is the only child of the late Matriarch Benezia, although mother and daughter became estranged in the years before Benezia was indoctrinated by the Reaper known as Sovereign. T'Soni is also a highly trained biotic who served under Commander Shepard aboard the SSV Normandy before the ship was destroyed in a Collector attack.
Before she became involved in galactic affairs, Dr. T'Soni spent 50 years researching the Protheans' technology and the mystery of their extinction. She now divides her time between uncovering Prothean ruins and consulting with noteworthy representatives of the various Citadel races.


EDI[]





Audio: EDIhttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:EDI_Codex.ogg

The Enhanced Defense Intelligence, or EDI, serves as an information source and cyberwarfare defense system on the rebuilt Normandy SR-2. The ship's crew can access EDI at any terminal or through radio contact.
During an attack from a Collector vessel, pilot Jeff "Joker" Moreau gave EDI full access to the Normandy's systems, allowing the ship to escape. Although EDI retains the control that Moreau gave her, she is usually content to advise the organic crew members who fly and maintain the ship.


Garrus Vakarian[]





Audio: Garrus Vakarianhttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Garrus_Codex.ogg

Garrus Vakarian is a noted turian sharpshooter and combat engineer. He was born on Palaven and became a Citadel Security officer like his father, but left the force when superiors shut down his investigation into the rogue Spectre Saren Arterius. Vakarian eventually discovered that Saren had been indoctrinated by the Reaper known as Sovereign.
Vakarian eventually found his way to the criminal haven of Omega and assumed the name Archangel. There, he and a small group of operatives worked to disrupt the settlement's powerful mercenary groups until Shepard recruited him. The turian narrowly survived the second Normandy's attack on the Collectors. More recently, Vakarian has become the head of a turian task force focused on preparing for the Reaper invasion.


Kaidan Alenko[]





Audio: Kaidan Alenkohttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Kaidan_Codex.ogg

Major Kaidan Alenko is a human biotic and an officer in the Systems Alliance. He served as staff lieutenant under Commander Shepard on the SSV Normandy during the Battle of the Citadel and now heads the Special Operations Biotics Division at the Alliance Warfare Center. An Alliance tribunal recently called on Alenko to testify about his experience with the Reapers.
Alenko suffers from severe headaches because of the early-model L2 biotic implants that he was given as a child. The L2 implants have since been discontinued due to the risk of crippling neurological damage.


Ashley Williams[]





Audio: Ashley Williamshttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Ashley_Codex.ogg

Lieutenant Commander Ashley Williams is a career military officer with the Systems Alliance.  Born in 2158 to a military family, Williams enlisted directly out of high school, splitting time between Earth and hostile environment training on Titan.  After earning numerous commendations early in her career, Williams became a platoon guide on Eden Prime, where she was the only member of her unit to survive the geth attack.
Williams then served as gunnery chief under Commander Shepard on the SSV Normandy and was promoted to lieutenant commander after the Battle of the Citadel.  More recently, an Alliance tribunal called on Williams to testify about her experience with the Reapers.


Tali'Zorah[]





Audio: Tali'Zorahhttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Tali_Codex.ogg

Tali'Zorah, a quarian machinist, was born in 2161 on the liveship Rayya. During her Pilgrimage--a rite of passage in which quarians prove their worth to the fleet--she recovered a geth memory core that proved a rogue Spectre, Saren Arterius, was working with the geth. As a consequence, Tali'Zorah became a crew member of the SSV Normandy, where she served under Commander Shepard during the Battle of the Citadel.
Tali'Zorah returned to the Migrant Fleet following the destruction of the first Normandy. Soon after, the Admiralty Board sent her to the former quarian colony of Haestrom to recover data on the planet's dying sun. Most of her team was killed when they fell under attack from the geth, but Tali'Zorah herself was narrowly rescued by Shepard and the crew of the rebuilt Normandy. The quarian rejoined Shepard to help oppose the Collector threat, but her current whereabouts are unknown.


Dr. Mordin Solus[]





Audio: Dr. Mordin Solushttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Mordin_Codex.ogg

Dr. Mordin Solus is a master geneticist and former operative for the salarian Special Tasks Group. Dr. Solus is well known for his work in perpetuating the genophage, a biological weapon that almost completely sterilized the krogan species. He eventually left the STG to open a clinic on Omega, where his combat skills kept the clinic safe and operational amid Omega's lawless society.
In 2185, Commander Shepard recruited Dr. Solus to research the Collectors and the Reapers. He was a member of the Normandy crew that traveled beyond the Omega 4 relay to attack the Collectors. He survived the mission, but his current whereabouts are unknown.


Jacob Taylor[]





Audio: Jacob Taylorhttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Jacob_Codex.ogg

Jacob Taylor is a human biotic and was once a Cerberus operative working under Miranda Lawson. Born in 2157, he began his career as a Systems Alliance marine and served as a member of the Corsairs, an arms-length program for operatives working outside of Alliance jurisdiction. Taylor survived the geth attack on Eden Prime, but left the Alliance afterwards because of what he perceived as unresponsiveness in the face of aggression.
While working for Cerberus, Taylor thwarted a plot by batarian terrorists to unleash a bioweapon on the Citadel. Soon after, he was assigned to Project Lazarus, the Cerberus effort to reconstruct Commander Shepard and the Normandy stealth frigate. Following the project's completion, Taylor accompanied Shepard through the Omega-4 relay to destroy the Collectors. He survived that mission and has since left Cerberus, although his current whereabouts and affiliations are unknown.


Jeff "Joker" Moreau[]





Audio: Jeff "Joker" Moreauhttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Joker_Codex.ogg

Flight Lieutenant Jeff "Joker" Moreau is a respected pilot with the Alliance Navy. Born and raised on Arcturus Station, he is widely considered to be the best helmsman in the Systems Alliance.
Moreau enlisted with the navy directly out of school and quickly gained the respect of his superiors. He served as pilot of both the Normandy SR-1 and its successor, the SR-2--and was at their respective helms during the Battle of the Citadel and the assault on the Collectors.
Moreau suffers from Vrolik syndrome, a rare, debilitating disorder also known as brittle bone disease.


Miranda Lawson[]





Audio: Miranda Lawsonhttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Miranda_Codex.ogg

Miranda Lawson is a high-ranking former Cerberus operative and a human biotic. Lawson headed Project Lazarus, the Cerberus operation that brought Commander Shepard back from the brink of death after the first Normandy was destroyed.
Lawson is herself an example of the achievements possible through genetic engineering. She was created in 2150 through manipulation of her father's DNA. Her entire physical and mental composition was deliberately engineered, including a longer life span and a superior immune system.
Lawson accompanied Commander Shepard on the maiden voyage of the Normandy SR-2 and was part of the crew responsible for the defeat of the Collectors. She has since left Cerberus. Her current whereabouts are unknown.


Dr. Karin Chakwas[]





Audio: Dr. Karin Chakwashttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Chakwas_Codex.ogg

Dr. Karin Chakwas is a trauma surgeon and a major in the Alliance Navy. She served on the SSV Normandy under both Captain Anderson and Commander Shepard and was aboard the ship when it was destroyed by the Collectors. She later quit the Alliance in order to rejoin Shepard on the Cerberus-built Normandy SR-2. Along with most of the second Normandy's crew, Dr. Chakwas was kidnapped by the Collectors and taken beyond the Omega 4 relay, where Commander Shepard eventually rescued her.
After the Alliance impounded the Normandy SR-2, an inquiry found that Dr. Chakwas had "no significant role in or provable knowledge" of Cerberus's criminal activities. She has since rejoined the Alliance.




