









Collector SMG





								Multiplayer
							





Type
Submachine Gun


Location
Mass Effect 3: Retaliation


Fire Mode
Automatic



Weight
  34% 


Capacity
  100% 


Fire Rate
  80% 


Damage
  22% 


Accuracy
  30% 




Ammunition


Clip Size
Reserve




30
∞







The Collector SMG is a submachine gun in Mass Effect 3.

Description[]
This short weapon is a hybrid of mechanical and organic parts, some more advanced than the Collector assault rifle. It vents heat automatically rather than requiring thermal clips and, when wielded by a Collector, extends a neural link to their skin at the wrist. Its ammunition is effective against armor and low recoil makes it a good weapon for sustained suppression.

Acquisition[]
Single-player
The Collector SMG is exclusive to multiplayer.

Multiplayer
Randomly rewarded by purchasing an item pack. The Collector SMG is categorized as ultra-rare and requires Mass Effect 3: Retaliation.

Player Notes[]
The Collector SMG uses a self-cooling system similar to the Particle Rifle, M-7 Lancer and Collector Sniper Rifle. However, unlike those weapons, the Collector SMG begins its cooldown the instant it stops shooting, albeit at a slower rate.
There is a sound effect upon fully regenerating its magazine.
The Collector SMG's base magazine size at level I is 30, increasing per level to a maximum of 40 at level X.
The Collector SMG regenerates 30% of its maximum clip size per second when not firing.[1] Upgrading the Collector SMG by adding a SMG Magazine Upgrade greatly extends its clip capacity, and therefore increases the number of shots added per second, improving its performance against crowds when burst firing.
The SMG Magazine Upgrade is strongly recommended to compensate for its small magazine size; the SMG Heat Sink mod is less effective and should not be used. A level X weapon with a level V SMG Magazine Upgrade has a capacity of 72.
The Collector SMG receives a 50% damage bonus against armored targets, allowing it to barely surpass the damage reduction armored targets receive on Gold and Platinum difficulties.[2]
To make the most out of the damage against armor bonus, equipping the SMG High-Velocity Barrel mod or using Armor-Piercing Rounds is highly recommended.
Some of the biotic classes can get away with using Warp Rounds and the SMG High Caliber Barrel instead; combined with Warp, this combination can produce up to a 100% weakening of armor.
The weapon works best with power-focused classes that are using powers often, as the weapon will be recharging its magazine during any ability use. It is commonly used as the lightest effective anti-armor weapon option for such classes.
The Collector SMG is one of the three heaviest SMGs, along with the N7 Hurricane and the Blood Pack Punisher. It is slightly heavier than the Hurricane but lighter than the Punisher.
The Collector SMG's major advantage over the other two is its regenerating clip, making ammunition refill not a concern. This is particularly useful on the higher difficulties where ammo expenditure is higher and refills are most scarce.
Assuming identical mods, the Hurricane's damage outstrips the Collector SMG against all target types and especially against unarmored targets; however, it is also much less stable and accurate and can quickly run dry.
Assuming both weapons have the same mods, the Blood Pack Punisher can deal slightly superior damage to armored targets, but it requires sustained fire and does not have a regenerating magazine. The Punisher also has inferior stability and accuracy (though greater than the Hurricane's); it tends to shine the most in tandem with Marksman against armored targets.
The Collector SMG has the least flexibility in what weapon mods are used of the other SMG options, essentially requiring the SMG Magazine Upgrade and usually one of the barrel enhancements for increased damage, though some builds may instead use the SMG Power Magnifier.
References[]

↑ https://web.archive.org/web/20160731151808/https://forum.bioware.com/topic/425389-collector-smg-mechanics//

↑ https://web.archive.org/web/20160318000954/forum.bioware.com/topic/277136-gameplay-data-and-mechanics/




Mass Effect 3 Weapons


Heavy Pistols

M-3 Predator • M-5 Phalanx • M-6 Carnifex • M-11 Suppressor • M-77 Paladin • M-358 Talon • Acolyte • Arc Pistol • Executioner Pistol • N7 Eagle • Scorpion


Submachine Guns

M-4 Shuriken • M-9 Tempest • M-12 Locust • M-25 Hornet • Blood Pack Punisher  Collector SMG • Geth Plasma SMG • N7 Hurricane


Shotguns

M-11 Wraith • M-22 Eviscerator • M-23 Katana • M-27 Scimitar • M-300 Claymore • AT-12 Raider • Disciple • Geth Plasma Shotgun • Graal Spike Thrower • N7 Crusader • N7 Piranha • Reegar Carbine • Venom Shotgun


Assault Rifles

M-7 Lancer • M-8 Avenger • M-15 Vindicator • M-37 Falcon • M-55 Argus • M-76 Revenant • M-96 Mattock • M-99 Saber • Adas Anti-Synthetic Rifle • Cerberus Harrier • Chakram Launcher • Collector Rifle • Geth Pulse Rifle • Geth Spitfire • N7 Typhoon • N7 Valkyrie • Particle Rifle • Phaeston • Striker Assault Rifle


Sniper Rifles

M-13 Raptor • M-29 Incisor • M-90 Indra • M-92 Mantis • M-97 Viper • M-98 Widow • Black Widow • Collector Sniper Rifle • Javelin • Kishock Harpoon Gun • Krysae Sniper Rifle • N7 Valiant


Heavy Weapons

M-451 Firestorm • M-560 Hydra • M-597 Ladon • M-920 Cain • Cobra Missile Launcher • Geth Combat Software • Geth Spitfire • Reaper Blackstar • Sync Laser





Mass Effect 3 Downloadable Content




Promotional

AT-12 Raider • Chakram Launcher • Collector Rifle • M-55 Argus  M-90 Indra • N7 Collector's Edition Pack • N7 Warfare Gear • Reckoner Knight Armor


Single-Player

From Ashes • Extended Cut • Firefight Pack • Leviathan • Groundside Resistance Pack  Alternate Appearance Pack 1 • Omega • Citadel • Genesis 2


Multiplayer

Online Pass • Resurgence Pack • Rebellion Pack • Earth • Retaliation • Reckoning




