


The Collector Chitin Armor is a non-customizable bonus armor in Mass Effect 2. In Mass Effect 3 it is simply known as Collector Armor.

Contents

1 Mass Effect 2

1.1 Description
1.2 Acquisition
1.3 Player Notes


2 Mass Effect 3

2.1 Description
2.2 Acquisition
2.3 Player Notes


3 See also


Mass Effect 2[]


Collector Chitin Armor






Effects
+10% Regeneration Rate+10% Storm Speed+20% Health


Starting Health
240


Starting Shields
250


Availability
Collectors' Weapon and ArmorRecon Operations Pack



Description[]
Cerberus adapted this suit for you out of salvaged Collector technology. The Collectors' chitinous armor is flexible and even tougher than ballistic fibers. Its organic construction allows it to be self-healing, and the muscle-like tissue that assists movement ensures it is comfortable to wear despite its weight.
+10% Regeneration Rate
+10% Storm Speed
+20% Health

Acquisition[]
The Collector Armor is available in the Collectors' Weapon and Armor and the Recon Operations Pack DLC packs.
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition it can be researched in the Normandy's Tech Lab at a cost of 10,000 Palladium.





Collector Rifle and ArmorShepard,

Our researchers have been working with captured Collector technology for some time now. They've developed an experimental armor suit in your size and an assault rifle that the techs say should take a standard thermal clip. I had the items delivered to the Normandy's armory.


Good hunting.


Player Notes[]
While the health and regeneration bonuses are useful for Soldiers, Vanguards and Sentinels who find themselves taking a lot of damage, the lack of weapon damage bonuses for the former two and tech/biotic power damage for the latter two should be noted.
Mass Effect 3[]


Collector Armor






Effects
+20% Shield Regeneration+20% Shields+20% Health


Availability
Nos Astra Sporting Goods



Description[]
The Collectors' chitinous armor is flexible and even tougher than ballistic fibers. Its organic construction allows it to be self-healing, and the muscle-like tissue that assists movement ensures it is comfortable to wear despite its weight. This suit was originally adapted out of salvaged Collector technology by Cerberus, and is incredibly difficult to find on the galactic market.

Acquisition[]
The Collector Armor can be purchased at Nos Astra Sporting Goods in the Presidium Commons for 50,000 credits without discounts, or through the Procurement terminals located in the Normandy's shuttle bay or Armax Arsenal Arena.

Player Notes[]
The 20% boost in health and shields is good for Soldiers, Vanguards, and other classes that may find themselves in direct line of fire.
This armor works great in combination with a defensive buff such as Barrier, Fortification, or the Sentinel's Tech Armor.

See also[]
Mass Effect 2 Arsenal




Mass Effect 2 Armor




Armor Customization • Armor Upgrades


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Assault Armor • Collector Chitin Armor  Inferno Armor • Terminus Armor • Kestrel Armor





Mass Effect 2 Downloadable Content




Promotional

Blood Dragon Armor • Collectors' Weapon and Armor • Inferno Armor  M-29 Incisor Sniper Rifle • Terminus Weapon and Armor


Cerberus Network

Zaeed - The Price of Revenge • Normandy Crash Site  Cerberus Weapon and Armor • Arc Projector • Firewalker Pack


Missions

Kasumi - Stolen Memory • Overlord • Lair of the Shadow Broker • Arrival


Additional Content

Alternate Appearance Packs •  Equalizer Pack • Aegis Pack • Firepower Pack  Mass Effect: Genesis • Recon Operations Pack • N7 Complete Arsenal Bundle





Mass Effect 3 Armor




Armor Customization


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Ajax Armor • Cerberus Armor • Cerberus Nightmare ArmorCerberus Shade Armor • Cerberus Spirit Armor • Collector Armor • Inferno Armor • N7 Defender ArmorReckoner Knight Armor • Terminus Assault Armor




