


The Collector Assault Rifle is an assault rifle in Mass Effect 2 and in Mass Effect 3's multiplayer mode, where it is simply referred to as the Collector Rifle.

Contents

1 Mass Effect 2

1.1 Description
1.2 Acquisition
1.3 E-Mail from the Illusive Man
1.4 Squad Use
1.5 Player Notes


2 Mass Effect 3

2.1 Description
2.2 Acquisition
2.3 Player Notes


3 See Also


Mass Effect 2[]







Collector Assault Rifle

General Stats

Type
Assault Rifle


Location
ME2 Collector's Edition or Recon Operations Pack (LE: Normandy SR-2)


Accuracy
High


Recoil
Low


Fire Mode
Automatic


Fire Rate
500 RPM


Ammo Per Clip
28



Damage & Bonus Multipliers

Base
17.4


Armor
×1.25


Shields
×1.25


Barrier
×1.25



Spare Ammo Capacity

Default
280


Armor Pack
308


Upgraded
N/A


Both
N/A


Pickup Amount (Min - Max)
49 - 91




Description[]
The Collector's main weapon uses the same principles as a human assault rifle, but its organic components clearly set it apart. Its power source appears to be an internal organ with biotic capacitance; its ammunition resembles pellets of metallic enamel that strip shields off enemies with deadly efficiency.

Acquisition[]
Available as part of the Collector's Editions of Mass Effect 2 in the Collectors' Weapon and Armor pack, regardless of preorder. If you start a new game with this weapon already in place, you will have it as the default assault rifle for your squadmates (instead of the M-8 Avenger). Also included in the Recon Operations Pack. 
In Legendary Edition it can be researched in the Normandy's Tech Lab at a cost of 5,000 iridium.

E-Mail from the Illusive Man[]






Shepard,

Our researchers have been working with captured Collector technology for some time now. They've developed an experimental armor suit in your size and an assault rifle that the techs say should take a standard thermal clip. I had the items delivered to the Normandy's armory.


Good hunting.



Squad Use[]
This weapon can be used by Garrus, Grunt, Legion, Samara/Morinth, and Zaeed.

Player Notes[]
The Collector Assault Rifle has a higher damage output than the M-8 Avenger, but with a slightly lower rate of fire and ammo capacity. It is less accurate than other assault rifles, although its accuracy remains constant rather than decreasing with continuous fire or movement so it's best suited for players who prefer to fire while running.
Mass Effect 3[]







Collector Rifle





								Multiplayer
							





Type
Assault Rifle


Location
Bonus itemMass Effect 3: Retaliation


Fire Mode
Automatic



Weight
  64% 


Capacity
  57% 


Fire Rate
  46% 


Damage
  14% 


Accuracy
  29% 




Ammunition


Clip Size
Reserve




28
280








Description[]
The Collectors' main weapon uses the same principles as a human assault rifle, but its organic components clearly set it apart. Its power source seems to be an internal organ with biotic capacitance; its ammunition resembles pellets of metallic enamel that tear through enemies with deadly efficiency.

Acquisition[]
Single-player
The Collector Assault Rifle is exclusive to multiplayer.

Multiplayer
Unlocked with a code obtained by pre-ordering The Art of the Mass Effect Universe from Barnes & Noble, or ordering a Mass Effect 3-branded Razer gaming accessory. The code could also be obtained by purchasing the digital version of The Art of the Mass Effect Universe or the entire Mass Effect: Invasion series through Dark Horse digital store by March 21, 2012.
After October 9, 2012, it is randomly rewarded by purchasing item packs with Mass Effect 3: Retaliation downloaded and installed. The Collector Assault Rifle is categorized as rare.

Player Notes[]
The Collector Rifle is a definite improvement in damage-over-time over the basic M-8 Avenger, but at the cost of significantly more weight, being almost as heavy as the M-37 Falcon. The extra damage is generally not worth that level of encumbrance in view of the weapon's lack of any other standout features, if other better options are available.
Unlike the Collector SMG and the Collector Sniper Rifle, the Collector Assault Rifle uses thermal clips. Its clip capacity is on the low side.
The Collector Rifle is fairly inaccurate when hip-fired, so aim down sights and/or fire from cover as much as possible.
The Awakened Collector Adept can deal bonus damage with the Collector Rifle thanks to the Collector/Prothean Weapon Damage bonus it receives from its Vengeful Ancient passive. This bonus will also improve the damage of ammo equipment used with the weapon.
See Also[]
Collector Armor




Mass Effect 2 Downloadable Content




Promotional

Blood Dragon Armor • Collectors' Weapon and Armor • Inferno Armor  M-29 Incisor Sniper Rifle • Terminus Weapon and Armor


Cerberus Network

Zaeed - The Price of Revenge • Normandy Crash Site  Cerberus Weapon and Armor • Arc Projector • Firewalker Pack


Missions

Kasumi - Stolen Memory • Overlord • Lair of the Shadow Broker • Arrival


Additional Content

Alternate Appearance Packs •  Equalizer Pack • Aegis Pack • Firepower Pack  Mass Effect: Genesis • Recon Operations Pack • N7 Complete Arsenal Bundle



Mass Effect 2 Weapons


Heavy Pistols

M-3 Predator • M-6 Carnifex • M-5 Phalanx


Submachine Guns

M-4 Shuriken • M-9 Tempest • M-12 Locust


Shotguns

M-23 Katana • M-27 Scimitar • M-300 Claymore • M-22 Eviscerator • Geth Plasma Shotgun


Assault Rifles

M-8 Avenger • M-15 Vindicator • Geth Pulse Rifle • M-76 Revenant • Collector Assault Rifle • M-96 Mattock


Sniper Rifles

M-92 Mantis • M-97 Viper • M-98 Widow • M-29 Incisor


Heavy Weapons

M-100 Grenade Launcher • ML-77 Missile Launcher • M-622 Avalanche • M-920 Cain • Collector Particle Beam • M-490 Blackstorm • M-451 Firestorm • Arc Projector



Mass Effect 3 Weapons


Heavy Pistols

M-3 Predator • M-5 Phalanx • M-6 Carnifex • M-11 Suppressor • M-77 Paladin • M-358 Talon • Acolyte • Arc Pistol • Executioner Pistol • N7 Eagle • Scorpion


Submachine Guns

M-4 Shuriken • M-9 Tempest • M-12 Locust • M-25 Hornet • Blood Pack Punisher  Collector SMG • Geth Plasma SMG • N7 Hurricane


Shotguns

M-11 Wraith • M-22 Eviscerator • M-23 Katana • M-27 Scimitar • M-300 Claymore • AT-12 Raider • Disciple • Geth Plasma Shotgun • Graal Spike Thrower • N7 Crusader • N7 Piranha • Reegar Carbine • Venom Shotgun


Assault Rifles

M-7 Lancer • M-8 Avenger • M-15 Vindicator • M-37 Falcon • M-55 Argus • M-76 Revenant • M-96 Mattock • M-99 Saber • Adas Anti-Synthetic Rifle • Cerberus Harrier • Chakram Launcher • Collector Rifle • Geth Pulse Rifle • Geth Spitfire • N7 Typhoon • N7 Valkyrie • Particle Rifle • Phaeston • Striker Assault Rifle


Sniper Rifles

M-13 Raptor • M-29 Incisor • M-90 Indra • M-92 Mantis • M-97 Viper • M-98 Widow • Black Widow • Collector Sniper Rifle • Javelin • Kishock Harpoon Gun • Krysae Sniper Rifle • N7 Valiant


Heavy Weapons

M-451 Firestorm • M-560 Hydra • M-597 Ladon • M-920 Cain • Cobra Missile Launcher • Geth Combat Software • Geth Spitfire • Reaper Blackstar • Sync Laser





Mass Effect 3 Downloadable Content




Promotional

AT-12 Raider • Chakram Launcher • Collector Rifle • M-55 Argus  M-90 Indra • N7 Collector's Edition Pack • N7 Warfare Gear • Reckoner Knight Armor


Single-Player

From Ashes • Extended Cut • Firefight Pack • Leviathan • Groundside Resistance Pack  Alternate Appearance Pack 1 • Omega • Citadel • Genesis 2


Multiplayer

Online Pass • Resurgence Pack • Rebellion Pack • Earth • Retaliation • Reckoning




