









Colonist




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Armament
Pistols


Abilities
None


Health
Low


Shields
Very Low


Locations
Feros


The Colonists are people who have settled on Feros at the human colony of Zhu's Hope.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




During the Feros: The Thorian mission, Shepard learns that ExoGeni found the Thorian and allowed it to control the colonists as part of a study. When returning from the ExoGeni building to destroy the Thorian, Shepard learns that under the control of the Thorian, the colonists will try to stop them. When Shepard arrives they encounter a Thorian Creeper on the exterior of the colony, once the creeper has been dealt with Shepard can make a choice, either to equip the gas grenades to incapacitate the colonists (paragon), or have the squad shoot them outright (renegade).

Tactics[]
Colonists have low shielding and health, so they will tend to stay behind cover, usually with someone else. They will rarely leave cover and only take a few shots here and there. They are only armed with pistols so the damage they can put out is not much. Either the gas grenades, melee attacks or shooting them will be effective.



Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





