









Colt Dalton
Dock Manager

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Colt Dalton is the manager for Kadara Port's docks. A greedy fellow who still somewhat follows a code of principles, his loyalty and services can be swayed by credits legitimate or otherwise.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




During Pathfinder Ryder's first visit to Kadara, Dalton can be first seen negotiating "fees" with Liam Kosta for the Nomad's parking space below the port.
Later, he can be overheard asking an exile for a date. He claims Umi Henon owes him enough favors to cover a bottle of whatever drink his prospective date wants. The ploy is apparently successful as the exile agrees. Other times, he can complain about being shortstaffed of competent help.
The first time Ryder talks to him, Colt lets them know he considers the Tempest a beauty and that such ships are rare in the port. He also informs them Sloane Kelly has orders to make sure no one harasses the Pathfinder, and agrees with Ryder that she's being uncharacteristically nice.
Dalton can tell Ryder how the port is doing. He believes the place is safe enough if one's willing to pay.
Dalton appears to be loyal to Sloane, as he can be overheard refusing to look the other way on Collective business even with dangled incentives. In most other cases, he makes sure Sloane gets a cut of all cargo moving through Kadara, and paying him directly off the books doesn't count.
If Ryder looks for an angara on someone's behalf, Dalton initially keeps his mouth shut when the trail has started to involve him. He was bribed against saying anything, though he claims he can't stop the Pathfinder from peeking at his records.
Following the showdown between the Outcast and Collective leadership, Dalton hears about the results and can be overheard discussing it with a female exile. If Sloane won, he finds it incredulous Reyes Vidal is the Charlatan, figuring it would have been someone with a more mysterious vibe. His chatmate disagrees, as she thinks Reyes had the "tall, dark, and handsome" thing going on. If Ryder shot Reyes, Dalton argues Reyes might not be as handsome anymore. If not, the exile jokes at Dalton's expense that jealousy doesn't suit him.
If the Collective won, the female exile is surprised to see Dalton still working at the docks. He reasons that although Sloane was good to him, his loyalty to her means nothing now that she's dead. Dalton isn't going away just because of a little change in management.




