









Heckt
Commander

Race
Angara


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Commander Heckt is a member of the Angaran Resistance on Voeld.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




As with most angara, he initially distrusts Pathfinder Ryder. If the Pathfinder goes to the Angaran Resistance Base without any prior reputation, Heckt thinks they're a spy and gruffly tells them to go away. If word has reached the base about the Pathfinder's help on Havarl, Heckt acknowledges such but he still wants to decide for himself after talking to Evfra de Tershaav.
Heckt is part of the Resistance team assigned to breach the facility holding Moshae Sjefa, composed of himself, Owwin, and Skaelv. On the shuttle ride en route to the facility, he explains to the Pathfinder's team that the angara lost too many fighters assaulting the type of facility they're going into. Whichever Ryder's response to Jaal Ama Darav claiming death is better than slavery, Heckt announces it's why they're excited to be part of the mission.
While infiltrating the facility, Heckt is impressed by what he sees, though he keeps his wits about him and attempts to keep his exhilarated teammates focused. He comes across belongings of kidnapped angara, and briefly wonders if they have time to look around. Realizing Ryder is their best chance to find the Moshae, the Commander decides to use his team to attack head-on to provide a distraction.
After the appropriate explosive distraction has been provided, Heckt comms Ryder to inform them they've made contact with Anjik Do Xeel for reinforcements. Jaal also requests scientist and technician backup, and Heckt complies.
Later, Heckt's team encounter a group of angaran prisoners that seem to have no inclination to escape, so the infiltrators are forced to leave them behind. With the angaran reinforcements inbound, the Commander and his team head out to rendezvous.
Once Ryder has retrieved the Moshae, Heckt comms to check in. He wants the base destroyed and lets the Pathfinder's team know if they decided otherwise, though he still complies with the directive to help usher out as many prisoners as they can before more kett arrive.




