


The Hyperion has docked with the Nexus, the support hub for Andromeda Initiative teams.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Travel to the Nexus via tram
2.2 Locate Nexus personnel
2.3 Optional: Speak with Avina
2.4 Speak with the construction worker
2.5 Accompany Kandros to Nexus Operations via tram
2.6 Speak with Director Tann in Pathfinder Headquarters


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Planetside

This mission is acquired immediately upon completion of the previous one.

Walkthrough[]
The approach of the Hyperion to the Nexus is quiet and uneventful. Pathfinder Ryder and the Pathfinder crew remark on the lack of assembly progress that the Nexus has completed but remain enthusiastic about the official welcome home since their eventful arrival in the Heleus Cluster.

Travel to the Nexus via tram[]
Head to the tram console and activate it to begin your first tour of the interior of the Nexus.

Locate Nexus personnel[]
Sadly there is no welcoming party to receive the Pathfinder crew. You begin in the tram entrance to the Common Area of the Nexus, though it's labeled Unknown Area at the moment. Beyond the door is an atrium which is in disarray with empty hydroponic tanks and equipment strewn about, with not a living being in sight. Everything seems to be on standby, with barely enough illumination as it is.
Multiple items here can be scanned, although these do not reward research points. To the right from the entrance there's a small lootable container among the big scannable containers.

Optional: Speak with Avina[]
The virtual intelligence, Avina, stands alone in the darkness and can give basic information but does not answer the most pressing question of the Pathfinder crew. 

Speak with the construction worker[]
The area is bounded by large boxes so you won't have to wander to find someone. Illuminated by a worklight not that far from the entrance there's a lone technician conducting repair work on a panel, too busy to notice you or your squad. Speak with the construction worker to learn that they thought the Hyperion crew was dead, feared lost in dark space, or captured.
While conversing with the construction worker, Tiran Kandros, the head of security, approaches and updates the group on the situation. The Nexus was badly damaged upon arrival in the Heleus Cluster in an event eerily similar to the Hyperion's arrival above Habitat 7, caused by what they refer to as the Scourge. The resulting situation deteriorated into a lack of life support for those onboard the Nexus, culminating in a mutiny and eventual exile of the rebellious force. Those remaining on the Nexus had lost hope that any arks would arrive, hence their surprise at the Hyperion's arrival. 

Accompany Kandros to Nexus Operations via tram[]
Kandros escorts Ryder's team to the bridge in Operations where the Nexus crew busily prepares to receive the essential power and resources from the Hyperion. You'll meet the rest of the Nexus leadership here, or what's left of them: Jarun Tann, Foster Addison, and Nakmor Kesh. The first two initially doubt your Pathfinding skills but are willing to give you a chance to prove it, while Kesh is supportive since your ark's arrival keeps the lights on.
At the conclusion of the cutscene, you can explore the Nexus solo. Your team is off attending to other matters at the moment: Liam Kosta sees to security concerns while Cora Harper goes with Tann to discuss giving you a scout ship. First Murderer and Station Sabotage may now be started and the Task: Getting to Know the Nexus is immediately started at this point as well. With a little planning, these three can be done in parallel to minimize the number of back and forth trips to various areas on the Hyperion and the Nexus.

Speak with Director Tann in Pathfinder Headquarters[]
Head to Jarun Tann's office which is located just below and south of the bridge. Upon opening the door, a cutscene will occur where Tann explains Ryder's first task as Pathfinder. You must go to the nearby planet Eos and figure out how to establish an outpost so the Initiative can gain a foothold and begin obtaining the resources it needs to start colonizing the galaxy. 
Tann also explains that the alien race you encountered on Habitat 7 is known as the kett; they have been classified as a race hostile to the Initiative's goals and should be avoided. The conversation is interrupted by SAM who requests that you meet him aboard the Hyperion to discuss a sensitive matter. Tann concludes the chat by ordering you to report to the assigned scouting vessel and prepare to depart for Eos. 
The mission is completed and the next Priority Op begins. Additionally, the Allies and Relationships mission Missing Arks is automatically started.

Aftermath[]
The Pathfinder team have their orders to establish an outpost on Eos. Given a ship and support team, the Initiative has organized this last ditch effort to save its mission from failure. While the Nexus and Hyperion stretch their resources to last, they are counting on Ryder's success to start the colonization processes.
Rewards[]
+530 XP

Priority Ops Navigation


← Previous Mission

Mission Index

Next Mission →


Planetside

Missions (Mass Effect: Andromeda)

First Strike




