









Copeland
Ensign

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect 3


Ensign Copeland is a yeoman assigned to the Normandy SR-2. He holds idealistic views on war and is unprepared to hear the harsh realities of it.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




During Shepard's visit to the Citadel to discuss their findings on Mars with the Citadel Council, Copeland is lounging at Normandy Dock: Bay D24  when he's approached by Battlespace reporter Diana Allers. Copeland repeatedly stonewalls all of her questions regarding Shepard's whereabouts as the Normandy was last seen on Earth. If Shepard notices the commotion and permits Diana to stay aboard the Normandy, Copeland disappears from the lounge as well as Allers.
On board the ship, Copeland can confront Allers about her opinion piece on Terra Nova claiming the colony should be sacrificed to save several more. As Copeland hails from there, he doesn't take kindly to his colony being selected, considering Shepard saved it years earlier or because more influential entities like the Asari Republics might take it seriously. He even accuses Allers of being traitorous with that sort of view. If Shepard sides with the ensign, Copeland rubs in the victory as Allers has no choice but to pull it. If Shepard sides with the reporter, Copeland stands down and grudgingly accepts Diana's compromise that she will be clear the opinion expressed is just her own.
Copeland frequently visits the Port Observation lounge, often listening to tales shared by Shepard's squadmates. If Garrus Vakarian is around, the turian regales him with the squad's exploits on Noveria involving the Rachni Queen, which Copeland finds amazing. However, he disagrees with Garrus being impressed with the Reapers' modus operandi of turning people into husks. He simply deems it evil and he has trouble understanding why anyone would admire them. Garrus admonishes him to respect the enemy's capabilities or he will be continually surprised at what they can do. If Javik is around, the Prothean directly addresses Copeland's "childish views of war" as an example that humanity has much to learn.

Trivia[]
Copeland has a different model in his Citadel scene compared to the one used on the Normandy.



