


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
On occasion when Cora is in the squad, she will engage in conversations unique to her.

Unique Dialogue[]
Throughout Ryder's travels, there are specific points where Cora will voice her opinions.

On A Better Beginning:
Cora wants a military outpost if her opinion is asked, reasoning that research is no good if they're dead.
Spontaneous[]
Sometimes Cora will say something spontaneously, without being prompted. 

On Eos:
After hearing the relatively upbeat description for Fairwinds Basin, Cora concludes it does provide more than a little hope.
While wandering around on Prodromos, Cora worries for the safety of its colonists if it's a scientific outpost. If it's a military outpost, Cora reports that its defenses are online.
While wandering around on Site 1: Promise, Cora remarks that recovery is a long process.
When the final survey beacon has been planted on Task: What He Would Have Wanted, Cora sobs a little after realizing the significance of the beacons.
On Havarl:
Shortly after landing for the first time, Cora observes the lush biodiversity of the place and muses there may be golden worlds out there after all.
While roaming around the Central Wilds after hearing about Havarl's decline from Kiiran Dals, Cora finds it hard to believe the scientists as the place looks perfect.
On discovering the Chasm of the Builders she remarks it's a long way to fall.
On Voeld:
On approach to Hjara Station, Cora comments they saw it from the lookout post. Later, she notices the enormous ice cube there.
On Kadara:
On entering Tartarus in Kadara Slums Cora bets 10 minutes before someone knifes the squad.
After exiting the slums Cora deems the environment beautiful, except for the presence of exiles, burning water, and sulfurous smell.
On Elaaden:
After the conclusion of Aspirations, if Barrett moved into his new base and was told about the munitions stockpile there, he talks about taking over other groups. Cora hopes his future plans will result in making Elaaden safer.
Nomad Banter[]
While driving across a landscape in the Nomad, Cora may initiate conversations around certain topics. 

While talking with Drack:
Cora has heard he fought in the Krogan Rebellions, and she muses nobody came out of that war looking good.
Drack claims to be descended from Shiagur the Warlord. Cora's not impressed: every krogan boasting at a bar says the same thing. Drack tells her he has the clan brands on his body, though Cora doesn't want to know where exactly and takes his word for it.
While talking with Vetra:
Cora teases she read Vetra's dossier, but doesn't say anything else other than it's classified. Vetra warns her not to keep things hanging, so Cora assures her she's not trying to start anything. Cora emphasizes she's military while Vetra's not, though if the turian has the skills to help with the primary mission then she won't have a problem with her.
When Vetra tells her about the charms of freelancing, Cora assumes Kadara is tempting to her.
Cora discloses her parents disappeared. Her efforts to look for them were fruitless, and she muses that not everything gets a decent closure.
Vetra sympathizes with Cora's predicament and also shares her similar circumstances. On hearing Sid's importance to her sister, Cora remarks she's lucky to have Vetra.
Cora inquires about how Vetra learned her skills as she didn't have a lot of people to guide her, and deems the turian's responses interesting.
Cora's impressed with a dodging move Vetra did and asks about it.
Cora admires Vetra's achievements for herself and her sister, prior to even departing the Milky Way. She reckons she couldn't have done it herself. Vetra slightly misunderstands the phrasing, causing Cora to apologize.
On Eos:
Cora asks Ryder about the early data on Eos gathered before the Initiative's voyage. She tells them their dad knew all those planet readings by heart even when they were just labeled "H with a bunch of numbers." She wonders what those planets really looked like back then.
Around the rock formations near the Four Giants Cora shares how Earth had similar structures that made kids think of alien worlds.
While talking with Vetra:
Cora berates herself for getting sloppy in the last fight, claiming her old CO Nisira T'Kosh would be scolding her for it. She's frustrated on the amount of challenges and wishes she feels sturdier in the field.
Cora prompts her to reveal who taught her to shoot.
When Vetra notes the Initiative's lack of time to study "weird tech" because of the kett, Cora observes it's best to focus first on the people shooting at them.
Cora hears Vetra once table-danced on Omega.
On Voeld:
While descending the mountain pass from the Angaran Resistance Base to the rest of the valley for the first time, Cora warns the Pathfinder to be careful.
Cora wonders if the angara would let the Initiative train with them as she's curious about their methods.
She wants some angaran heaters in the Nomad as its default heating system isn't enough to warm her.
She muses about the heating bills if the Initiative settles on Voeld.
Cora's still reeling over Voeld turning out to be far from the "golden world" other people envisioned.
She playfully notes the Initiative rulebook doesn't explicitly state that Pathfinders always get to drive.
Near the Kett Base, Cora attempts to note entrances, exits, and possible weak spots from their vantage point.
Cora deems the view along the cliffs near the entrance gorgeous.
While talking with Drack:
Cora notices he's even more anti-Nexus than the other krogan. Her job is to watch Ryder's back, and she practically challenges Drack if he's trustworthy enough to watch hers.
When Drack notices she works too hard, she replies that at least she gets paid.
Cora asks if he recruits scouts or if krogan volunteer. Drack answers both, and he recruits based on their "look". Cora inquires further, and he replies it's not a beauty contest: he takes krogan based on how tough they appear.
When Drack muses about the Eos vault doing its job properly, Cora hopes they stay lucky as the Initiative banks on technology they don't understand yet.
Drack complains about her shooting stance. Cora explains it's the Karita stance used by Asari Commandos.
Cora muses if Drack were asari he'd be retiring with honors at his age. She doesn't think he gets free booze, however.
Cora notes Drack's 1,400-year-old lifespan is longer than the asari average.
When Drack asks about Alec Ryder, Cora tells him Alec was grumpy but well-prepared, though she thinks even he didn't expect the sheer amount of misfortune they encountered.
Cora tells him everyone has secrets, even Alec, and she refuses to divulge what she knows about the dead man.
Cora snidely remarks on his shooting skill, though he insists he was laying covering fire. He offers to show her a picture book about it, though she doesn't want to deprive an old man of his bedtime reading.
She lends Drack a spare heat sink to plug his armor, though she doesn't want it back as the hole is around his nethers.
Cora observes it seems desperate everywhere they go, with only one team to fix things. She feels the pressure is bigger while on the ground.
Cora swears to win everything she lost at poker night, assuming even Gil Brodie isn't infallible. Drack has low hopes for her, so she vows to take him down after dealing with Gil.
The smell of Drack's armor is getting to her, so she asks him to clean it. He forgets how to respond to her about that, so she tells him she can wait.
While talking with Jaal:
Cora takes a liking to Jaal's Lanat and shares that in the Milky Way people sometimes named their favorite weapons.
While talking with Vetra:
Cora inquires how Sid is coping given that she's a minor.
On Elaaden:
Cora is amazed at rock formations.
While talking with Peebee:
Cora extols the asari mindset of learning from alien cultures to grow, else there's no point to the Andromeda Initiative. Asari culture is old to someone like Peebee, but not to humans.



