







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Crater: Agneta is one of four mining camps established by Krex's outlaw gang on H-047c. It is located far northeast from the Tempest, on the northeastern landmass separated from the Tempest's position by the Lethe Rift. 
Unlike the other camps, Agneta is composed of a double-dome system. The first dome is freely accessible. The second dome can only be entered from the first dome, and entry requires a passcode. The other mining camps have datapads that contain the code, though they are all partially corrupted, necessitating the need to retrieve them all so that SAM can reconstruct the code.
The outlaw base cannot be seen from afar compared to the other camps due to the sheer size of the crater rim. On the outskirts of the crater south of the dome complex is a basic mining zone for magnesium, silicon, and titanium.

Layout[]
The first dome is composed of a couple of supply sheds, some haphazardly scattered containers, and a system of pipes presumably for mining the soil. A soil centrifuge is installed at the base of the tower holding up the dome, for separating the helium-3 from irradiated soil. 
The second dome is far smaller, though it's composed of the two-story headquarters and a shuttlepad. There are two shuttles, with one under a tarp. There are numerous titanium nodes in the area, as well as a scaler repurposed for mining.

Missions[]
Heleus Assignments
From the Dust
Terminals[]
On the headquarters building in the second dome:




Regarding your question
Thanks for coming to me first with this. It'll be tough, since H-047c is practically an asteroid field. But if anyone can pilot a ship through that mess, it's my crew.


I'll get you what you need. I'll have to double my rates because of the risk involved—I'm sure you understand. But I promise you, in two weeks you'll be walking around with a shiny new toy. Hope you use it well.





Hey, kiddo
I know you'll yell at me for messaging you. Yeah, maybe I'll get in trouble. I don't care. Morda can kiss my ass.

You really should see the colony, Krex. We've done alright for ourselves. Good protection, a great deal with the angara in charge… even scientists working on agriculture. You'd like it here.

Vorn asks about you sometimes. Says if you want to come back, there's a place in his lab for you. It has to be better than whatever you're doing over there. Just think about it, okay?


Barruk





RE: We need to do something
Look, I don't like her any more than you do. But who else do we follow? Sloane, who takes more than her share of the score? Some Charlatan joker we've never even seen? I'll take my chances with an over-ambitious child.


Just lay low and do what she says. We'll find a way to stack the cards in our favor. And we'll take over before it's too late and we have the Nexus swooping down to tear us to pieces.





