







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Crater: Peregrine is one of four mining camps established by Krex's outlaw gang on H-047c. It is located south of Acheron Spine, west of Crater: Vespasien and east of a Forward Station just outside its bounds.
Southeast within the bounds of the crater is a basic mining zone for magnesium, silicon, and titanium.

Layout[]
The crater's interior has four main structures aside from the tower powering the dome: a workshop, a storage shed, a landing pad, and the two-story living quarters. The shed, the landing pad, and the living quarters are all connected via walkway.
There are numerous uranium ore nodes along the rock outcroppings in the area.

Missions[]



Heleus Assignments
From the Dust


Additional Tasks
Task: Hitting Rocks for Science

Terminals[]



Hey from Kadara
Hey, Kellog. The gang here has a bet going, and we need you to settle it. This Krex guy we keep hearing about—ask him if he's a real scientist and see how he reacts. Like, he's krogan, right? Don't they have brains the size of walnuts or something?


Have you actually seen him work? Can he count above ten? Ha! Okay, but seriously, you have to tell me what he's like. I hear he's a nightmare to work with. Come back soon so we can hear all the stories.





Holy shit!
We got to try out those Hydras today! I can't believe you left before they arrived! Shit, Caleb, if you could see them in action. With these babies in our lineup, we'll stomp the Collective, for sure.


Hey, I wonder if you could get a few for H-047c. I bet they'd kick some serious ass in low-G. Maybe you could give Krex an epic punch right in the quad. If you do, take a picture for me.





Just go for it
We all see the way you stare at Kessia. From the way you two talk, it sounds like you knew each other on Kadara. I'm gonna go out on a limb and guess you came here for her.

Just ask her out. You were one of the best smugglers on Kadara, and now you're sitting pretty on a big score from this venture. If that's not Most Eligible Bachelorette material, I don't know what is. Besides, for a turian you're not half bad-looking. She likes you, trust me.


Do us all a favor and close the deal with Kessia. We're sick of you mooning over her.





