







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Crater: Vespasien is one of four mining camps established by Krex's outlaw gang on H-047c. It is located south of Acheron Spine, east of Crater: Peregrine.
Contents

1 Layout
2 Missions
3 Datapads
4 Terminals


Layout[]
The crater's interior has two main structures aside from the tower powering the dome: a two-story living quarters, and a workshop. 
There are numerous platinum nodes along the rock outcroppings in the area. Also inside the dome is an element zero sample for training Chief Lucan's Geophysics VI as well as a loadout station for changing configurations without needing to return to forward stations or the Tempest. 

Missions[]



Heleus Assignments
From the Dust


Additional Tasks
Task: Hitting Rocks for Science

Datapads[]
On the second floor of the main quarters. This datapad disappears upon reading.




Salvage Team 13: "The Vagabonds" - Log 025
Login: Caitlin Perrot

I've never been so wrong in my life. To think I almost killed Baxter. Dear god, I could have got the whole team killed.

All those kett soldiers and ships we keep running into? They were following the signal we used to track the lockers from the salarian ark. Our equipment and tags were like a goddamn lighthouse for them. Baxter took Marcus' shotgun and blew a hole in the transceiver just as a huge kett ship appeared right over our position. I shot Baxter in the leg before I realized he'd just saved all our lives.

Once we got to shelter Marcus splinted the leg, and I offered Baxter one hell of an apology—plus a contract. I think he said "thank you." I'm stitching the Vagabonds patch onto his gear myself. Least I can do.

We'll stick to using Baxter's equipment from now on. It'll be harder for the Initiative to track us, but harder for the kett too. We'll be okay. We just need to stick together.


END LOG


Terminals[]



To the asshole who stole my boots
I get it. We're all bored out here on this hellhole, so you need a little entertainment. You had your fun. Now give them back, before I get frostbite on my goddamn toes.


I'm not angry—yet. But if I don't see those boots in the next two hours, whichever little shit did this is getting curb-stomped into the excavator.





I've been thinking…
You ever stop and take a look at your life and think, "How the hell did I get here?"

I'm lying here, trying to fall asleep, and all I can think about is what life would've been like if I hadn't taken part in that stupid rebellion. I had this picture of how my life was going to go. But Sloane got people so excited, I just kind of went with the flow, without thinking of the consequences. Now I can't even remember what it was I wanted.

Sorry… late night thinking and all that. Nothing I can do about it now. I guess you always just give such good advice, you were the first person I thought to contact. I don't expect you to say anything to make me feel better. I just needed to get it out.


Sleep well. We'll talk soon.





I'm fine
I know you're worried. But I'm okay, I promise. Elaaden is fine. Sure, it's about a thousand degrees, water is sold at a premium, and everyone is trying to kill me, but other than that I'm great!

That was supposed to make you laugh. Now I can just picture you worrying about me all over again. But really, I'll be okay. I got in good with one of the gang leaders here—Big Taran—and he's treating me alright. And the salvager who flies here from Kadara said she can bring me supplies, if I have the credits.


Bet I'm better off than you, scooping dust from a busted planet. Hang in there, okay? Life right now might be a little rough, but we're just backstage. Our time in the spotlight is coming.





