







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.











Crux
Charlatan Representative

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


The woman codenamed Crux is the Collective agent in charge of the Collective Base within Draullir.
Like most of the Charlatan's representatives, Crux only receives orders through messages and relays them to the underlings. She herself has never met the leader of the organization. The setup suits her fine as she doesn't like being micromanaged: as long as she carries out the orders, she's free to do whatever she wants.
Crux has no regrets leaving the Nexus because she felt they had no idea what they're doing. She passed on joining Sloane Kelly's Outcasts as advancement there is through nepotism. With the Collective, she figured the Charlatan is far more organized and meritocratic. Once in, she found that she likes her work: her salary is good, she enjoys some respect being a representative, and she doesn't mind living in a cave, figuring every job has its downside.
During Crux's tenure at the base, someone has been faking the Charlatan's orders for personal gain. This person has access to information restricted to representatives, and this resulted in two recruits getting killed. If Pathfinder Ryder offers to help, she realizes a curious third party can help uncover the culprit. She shares that the suspect came from Sulfur Springs and is likely to have elevated levels of sulfur on them, and that their footprints are smudged but either human or asari.
Following the Pathfinder's initial discovery of the base, Crux orders her underlings at the base to be on their best behavior whenever Ryder is around. However, if the base is discovered only after the Collective loses their bid for control over Kadara Port, Crux instead issues a directive declaring the base unsafe, directing operatives to tie up any loose ends there while the representatives meet up at an undisclosed location.
If Crux is spoken to only after the Charlatan seizes power, she introduces herself as a representative of her and Ryder's "common acquaintance", though she still hasn't met the Charlatan in person.

Trivia[]
Crux is a constellation made of four stars in a cross pattern as seen from Earth.



