


Cryo Blast is a tech power in Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3's single-player and multiplayer modes. 
When activated, the user's omni-tool fires a mass of super-cooled subatomic particles capable of snap-freezing targets within a certain radius.  
Note:  As with all projectile powers, the power does not launch an actual projectile when used by a squadmate. Instead, it impacts instantly. If there is any cover between Shepard (not the squadmate using it) and the target, the power will strike the cover instead. 

Contents

1 Mass Effect 2

1.1 Power Ranks

1.1.1 Deep Cryo Blast
1.1.2 Full Cryo Blast


1.2 Player Notes
1.3 Availability


2 Mass Effect 3

2.1 Power Ranks

2.1.1 Rank 1: Cryo Blast
2.1.2 Rank 2: Recharge Speed
2.1.3 Rank 3: Duration
2.1.4 Rank 4: Duration/Radius
2.1.5 Rank 5: Speed Reduction/Cryo Explosion
2.1.6 Rank 6: Recharge Speed/Frozen Vulnerability


2.2 Player Notes
2.3 Availability


3 References


Mass Effect 2[]
 Snap-freezes your targets.

Power Ranks[]
Rank 1 - Your omni-tool fires a mass of super-cooled subatomic particles capable of snap-freezing impacted targets.
Recharge Time: 4.50 seconds (9.00 seconds for Mordin)
Impact Radius: 1.20 meters
Freeze Duration: 3.00 seconds
Rank 2 - Your omni-tool fires a mass of super-cooled subatomic particles capable of snap-freezing impacted targets.
Recharge Time: 4.50 seconds (9.00 seconds for Mordin)
Impact Radius: 1.20 meters
Freeze Duration: 4.00 seconds
Rank 3 - Your omni-tool fires a mass of super-cooled subatomic particles capable of snap-freezing impacted targets.
Recharge Time: 4.50 seconds (9.00 seconds for Mordin)
Impact Radius: 1.20 meters
Freeze Duration: 5.00 seconds

Rank 4
Evolves Cryo Blast into one of the following options:

Deep Cryo Blast[]
The blast potency and freeze duration are equal to advanced cryogenic weapons.
Recharge Time: 4.50 seconds (Mordin and Shepard)
Impact Radius: 1.20 meters
Freeze Duration: 7.00 seconds
Full Cryo Blast[]
This cryo weapon's spray effect is engineered to maximize your chances of freezing multiple targets.
Recharge Time: 4.50 seconds (Mordin and Shepard)
Impact Radius: 3.00 meters
Freeze Duration: 5.00 seconds
Player Notes[]
Freeze Effects: The freezing effect will work on any enemy with a health bar once all other protection layers (shields, barriers, or armor) are removed. Cryo Blast is one of three ways to freeze enemies in Mass Effect 2, the others being Cryo Ammo and the M-622 Avalanche heavy weapon.
Even large foes such as Geth Primes or YMIR Mechs can be frozen. Enemies without a health bar such as Gunships, Harbinger, or Scions cannot be frozen.
Regular Husks will automatically shatter once frozen solid. Abominations will thaw like other enemies; however, killing them while frozen will cause them to explode immediately upon thawing. The same is true of any enemy with an on-death explosion, such as geth or mechs overloaded by high-level Disruptor Ammo, Klixen, or Pyro-type enemies that are about to explode because of damage to their fuel tanks.
The freezing process takes about 1.8 seconds, during which enemies can still act. Thus, enemies can still cause damage until fully frozen. Once the freeze duration ends, it takes about the same length of time for an enemy to thaw and recover to where it can attack you again.
Re-applying a freezing effect will never refresh the duration of the original freeze; only once an enemy starts thawing from that original freeze can it then be re-frozen.
Once frozen solid, enemies take double weapon damage[1] (includes the thaw phase, until enemies start to get up after falling over). Damage from powers like Warp and Incinerate is not increased. Damage to totally frozen enemies from melee attacks is increased. Punching the ice sculptures of enemies is a very ammo-efficient way of dispatching them where practicable.
Enemies that regenerate health such as vorcha and krogan have their regeneration paused while frozen. They may still regenerate health while in the process of freezing, and as soon as the freeze effect ends their health regeneration will resume unless hit by a power or attack that can permanently halt regeneration such as Incinerate.
Totally frozen enemies are more susceptible to physical damage by force-applying powers like Throw, Concussive Shot, and Charge. However, enemies are immune to most such powers during the freezing and thawing process.
Slam is capable of lifting targets in the process of freezing/thawing but the actual slam to the ground usually does no damage except against fully frozen (or fully unfrozen) enemies.
Shockwave has no effect whatsoever against even fully frozen enemies.
Freezing an enemy can cause it to drop out of sight behind cover making it impossible to hit.
Cryo Blast can briefly stun most protected light targets even though it can't freeze them.
Mordin's max rank Cryo Blast has the shortest recharge time of any squadmate ability outside of ammo powers.
Availability[]
Engineer
Sentinel
Mordin
Mass Effect 3[]


Power Ranks[]
Rank 1: Cryo Blast[]
Flash-freeze and shatter unprotected enemies. Slow down the rest.
Weaken armor.Frozen targets won't regenerate health.

Recharge Speed: 6 sec (5 sec multiplayer)
Freeze Duration: 3 sec (4 sec multiplayer)
Movement Speed: -15%


Rank 2: Recharge Speed[]
Increases recharge speed by 25%.

Recharge Speed: 4.80 sec (4 sec multiplayer)
Freeze Duration: 3 sec (4 sec multiplayer)
Movement Speed: -15%


Rank 3: Duration[]
Increase duration by 40%.

Recharge Speed: 4.80 sec (4 sec multiplayer)
Freeze Duration: 4.20 sec (5.60 sec multiplayer)
Movement Speed: -15%


Rank 4: Duration/Radius[]



Duration
Increase duration by 60%.

Recharge Speed: 4.80 sec (4 sec multiplayer)
Freeze Duration: 6 sec (8 sec multiplayer)
Movement Speed: -15%


Radius
Increase impact radius by 2 meters.




Rank 5: Speed Reduction/Cryo Explosion[]



Speed Reduction
Decrease movement speed of chilled targets by an additional 20%. (30% multiplayer)

Recharge Speed: 4.80 sec (4 sec multiplayer)
Freeze Duration: 6 sec (8 sec multiplayer) [Duration], 4.20 sec (5.60 sec multiplayer) [Radius]
Movement Speed: -35% (-45% multiplayer)


Cryo Explosion
Increase damage to chilled and frozen targets by 10%.




Rank 6: Recharge Speed/Frozen Vulnerability[]



Recharge Speed
Increase recharge speed by 50%. (100% multiplayer)

Recharge Speed: 3.43 sec (2.22 sec multiplayer)
Freeze Duration: 6 sec (8 sec multiplayer) [Duration], 4.20 sec (5.60 sec multiplayer) [Radius]
Movement Speed: -35% (-45% multiplayer) [Speed Reduction], -15% [Cryo Explosion]


Frozen Vulnerability
Increase damage to frozen and chilled targets by 15%.Weaken armored targets by an additional 25%.




Player Notes[]
Mechanics
Cryo Blast does no damage to enemies. It either freezes most unprotected (red bar) humanoid enemies solid, or it chills protected enemies, slowing their movement speed.
Cryo Blast hits only one target by default with no area of effect. With the Radius evolution, it gains the ability to hit multiple targets on impact.
Freeze: Only unprotected enemies can be frozen.
Unlike in Mass Effect 2, frozen enemies do not take more damage by default.
Even with the Radius evolution at rank 4, a single Cryo Blast can freeze a maximum of 2 enemies, even if multiple unprotected foes are within the impact area.
Fully frozen enemies are primed for Cryo Explosions.
As in Mass Effect 2, enemies that regenerate health, e.g. Cannibals that have eaten a corpse, have their regeneration paused while fully frozen.
The freezing process takes about 1.8 seconds, during which enemies can still act. Unlike in Mass Effect 2, it's less likely for enemies to successfully attack you while freezing. After the freeze duration runs, it takes about the same length of time for an enemy to thaw and recover to where it can attack you again.
Re-applying Cryo Blast or any other freezing effect will not refresh the duration of a freeze; only once an enemy starts thawing can it then be re-frozen.
Phantoms, Swarmers, and Seeker Swarms are immune to Cryo Blast's freeze; Possessed Abominations grow immune after being frozen twice.
Chill: Enemies hit by Cryo Blast, regardless of whether they freeze or not, are also chilled. This effect applies regardless of enemy protections.
The chill effect is visible on most enemies as a white sheen of frost.
Unlike the freeze, there is no restriction on the number of targets that can be affected by the chill effect if Cryo Blast has the Radius evolution—all valid targets hit are chilled.
By default, the chill effect will slow the movement speed of targets by 15%.
Though not stated in the description explicitly, increases to Cryo Blast's duration apply to the chill as well as to the freeze.
Enemies do not grow resistant or immune to chill effects with repeated use.
The chill effect does not slow the speed of special enemy movement abilities such as a Banshee's teleport, a Brute's charge, a Praetorian's leap, or the bombing run of a Geth Bomber.
Armor Reduction: Cryo Blast will decrease the damage mitigation afforded to armored (yellow bar) enemies. It does not allow penetration of armor plating protecting enemies such as Brutes, or Cannibals and Husks after they are given plating by a Marauder.
The baseline armor reduction is 25%, though this is not stated explicitly, only implied by the wording of the rank 6 Frozen Vulnerability evolution. Taking that evolution increases the reduction to 50%.
The armor reduction lasts while the chill lasts, and it will reduce armor effectiveness even if the chill was applied while any shielding was still intact, such as against a Banshee with barriers, or an Atlas with shields. Of course, any shielding must be stripped before the armor can be damaged.
The armor-weakening will stack additively with the armor-weakening effect of another Cryo Blast cast by a different character (either a squad member in single-player or another player character in multiplayer), but it will not stack with repeat castings by the same user.[2]
Frozen Vulnerability and Cryo Explosion: Both of these evolutions increase the damage that chilled or frozen targets take from all sources.
All sources truly means all sources of damage: chilled enemies will take increased damage from weapon fire, powers, Power Combos, and melee attacks from both the user and any allies.
The two evolutions stack additively, making the total increased damage to enemies 25% if both are taken.
Cryo Blast will further multiply damage done when used in conjunction with Incinerate if the rank 6 Freeze Combo evolution is picked for Incinerate.
Kaidan's Cryo Blast is the only ability that can freeze or chill available to NPC squadmates in Mass Effect 3.
Strategies
Cryo Blast is very effective against Cannibals, Husks, Abominations, Geth Troopers, Collector Troopers, and Cerberus Troopers. Their lack of any protections means they can be frozen immediately and subsequently eliminated from the fight, or failing that, incapacitated.
Since Cryo Blast can only freeze 2 enemies at most per use, if you plan to use it primarily for weakening powerful armored enemies, it can be better to take the Duration evolution over Radius at rank 4, as the duration increase is substantial, meaning it won't be necessary to cast Cryo Blast as many times on a hard target before taking it down. Also, the increased freeze duration can actually enable more total enemies to be kept frozen than with the Radius evolution, especially if power recharge times are kept low.
With both Frozen Vulnerability and Cryo Explosion evolutions, Cryo Blast becomes one of the most powerful debuffing abilities in the entire game. With the Radius evolution as well, the debuffs can apply to groups of enemies, making them all take extra damage from all sources, including from player allies.
Cryo Blast stops Cannibals from feasting on their former friends and gaining extra health and protection, provided said foes were eliminated while frozen, shattering their corpses.
Because Cryo Blast deals no damage, hits will not delay damaged or depleted enemy shields from recharging.
Cryo Blast is a very good power for easy headshots. The time to get one easily is as the enemy freezes, because the power stuns it. Adding the damage bonus from a properly evolved Cryo Blast, and even weaker sniper rifles like the M-97 Viper can score headshot kills
Even though Cryo Blast will not freeze protected enemies, it can still stun most infantry on impact or induce combat dodge moves, again making it easier to line up shots.
With the Rank 5 "Speed Reduction" evolution, Cryo Blast is able to bring already slow enemies like Brutes, Atlas mechs and Scions to a standstill, leaving them sitting ducks. This is especially the case in multiplayer, where the speed reduction is higher; the female Quarian Engineer and Turian Havoc Soldier in particular can run circles around enemies crippled by Cryo Blast.
Cryo Blast Use challenge: If the player is attempting to get Cryo Blast points for the multiplayer challenge Cryo Blast Use, the player will have to hit enemies with Cryo Blast and then damage them with weapons, powers, or melee attacks to kill them.
The experience (xp) granted after a kill using Cryo Blast will increase by ~20-22% (depending upon the enemy and difficulty level). The xp difference is what goes towards the Cryo Blast challenge and not the total xp for the kill. Ex: A Cannibal killed in bronze hazard difficulty will award +391 xp with Cryo Blast vs. +316 xp without Cryo Blast. Only 75 xp goes towards the Cryo Blast Use challenge.
Sometimes using Snap Freeze or Sentry Turret with Rank 5A Cryo Ammo will register towards the Cryo Blast Use points challenge. It is unclear why this happens; see the Cryo Blast talk page for more details.
Availability[]
Single-Player: Engineer, Sentinel, Kaidan Alenko
Multiplayer: Human Infiltrator, Quarian Engineer, Turian Havoc Soldier
References[]

↑ http://forum.bioware.com/topic/76803-mass-effect-2-gameplay-data/

↑ Verified from personal testing, corroborated by the unofficial BioWare forums: https://bsn.boards.net/thread/1782/numerical-thread-peddros-weakening-effects




Mass Effect 2 Powers


Ammo

Armor-Piercing Ammo • Cryo Ammo • Disruptor Ammo • Incendiary Ammo • Shredder Ammo • Warp Ammo


Biotic

Barrier • Charge • Dominate • Pull • Reave • Shockwave • Singularity • Slam • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Adrenaline Rush • Concussive Shot • Flashbang Grenade • Fortification • Inferno Grenade • Shadow Strike


Tech

AI Hacking • Combat Drone • Cryo Blast • Energy Drain • Geth Shield Boost • Incinerate • Neural Shock • Overload • Tactical Cloak • Tech Armor


Player only

Assault Mastery • Biotic Mastery • Combat Mastery • Defender • Operative • Tech Mastery • Unity


Squadmate Class

Ardat Yakshi • Asari Justicar • Asari Scientist • Cerberus Officer • Cerberus Operative • Turian Rebel • Drell Assassin • Geth Infiltrator • Krogan Berserker • Master Thief • Mercenary Veteran • Quarian Machinist • Salarian Scientist • Subject Zero



Mass Effect 3 Powers


Ammo

Armor-Piercing Ammo • Cryo Ammo • Disruptor Ammo • Incendiary Ammo • Warp Ammo


Biotic

Annihilation Field • Barrier • Biotic Focus • Biotic Hammer • Biotic Orbs • Biotic Protector • Biotic Slash • Biotic Sphere • Charge • Cluster Grenade • Dark Channel • Dark Sphere • Dominate • Flare • Lash • Lift Grenade • Nova • Poison Strike • Pull • Reave • Seeker Swarm • Shockwave • Singularity • Slam • Smash • Stasis • Throw • Warp • Warp Ammo


Combat

Adrenaline Rush • Arc Grenade • Ballistic Blades • Blade Armor • Bloodlust • Cain Trip Mine • Carnage • Concussive Shot • Devastator Mode • Fortification • Frag Grenade • Hawk Missile Launcher • Inferno Grenade • Marksman • Multi-Frag Grenade • Nightshade Blades • Phase Disruptor • Proximity Mine • Recon Mine • Repair Matrix • Sticky Grenade • Stimulant Pack


Tech

Armor-Piercing Arrows • Combat Drone • Concussive Arrows • Cryo Blast • Decoy • Defense Drone • Defense Matrix • Electric Slash • Electrical Hammer • Energy Drain • Flamer • Geth Turret • Havoc Strike • Hex Shield • Homing Grenade • Hunter Mode • Incinerate • Overload • Sabotage • Sentry Turret • Shadow Strike • Shield Boost • Siege Pulse • Snap Freeze • Submission Net • Supply Pylon • Tactical Cloak • Tactical Scan • Tech Armor


Fitness

Fitness (Adept) • Fitness (Engineer) • Fitness (Infiltrator) • Fitness (Sentinel) • Fitness (Soldier) • Fitness (Vanguard)


Fitness (multiplayer)

Advanced Hardware • Ancient Warrior • Fitness Module • Hardened Platform • Omni-Bow Mastery • Rage • Shield Mastery • Sword Mastery • T5-V Internal Systems • Venom Gauntlets • Warlord Rage


Player Class

Assault Mastery • Biotic Mastery • Combat Mastery • Offensive Mastery • Operational Mastery • Tech Mastery


Player Class (multiplayer)

Alliance Training • Armiger Legion • Asari Huntress • Asari Justicar • Asari Valkyrie • Batarian Enforcer • Drell Assassin • Elite Mercenary • Geth Juggernaut • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Krogan Warlord • N7 Demolisher • N7 Fury • N7 Paladin • N7 Shadow • N7 Slayer • Networked AI • Phoenix Training • Quarian Defender • Salarian Operative • T5-V Battlesuit • Turian Veteran • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient • Volus Training • Vorcha Resilience


Squadmate Class

Alliance Admiral • Alliance Officer • Arms Master • Asari Justicar • Biotic Boss • Cerberus Officer • Cerberus Operative • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Master Thief • Mercenary Veteran • Pure Biotic • Quarian Machinist • Subject Zero • Turian Huntress • Turian Rebel • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient




