


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
The Cultural Exchange, alternatively labeled Cultural Center, is a place on the Nexus where the Andromeda Initiative hopes to present their peaceful intentions once first contact with the native races of Andromeda has been initiated. It is overseen by the Cultural Center Liaison.
Layout[]
The Cultural Exchange is a simple ascending stairway with VI representations of various races and objects at set intervals. The upper level leads to the Common Area's second floor while the lower level leads to the Docking Bay, next to the immigration queue.
There is room for 11 VI kiosks in this setup. Beings get full-body representations while their prevailing race architecture is displayed as backdrop. Objects are displayed in raised projectors. At the top is a VI of Initiative founder Jien Garson welcoming visitors to the facility. 
8 of the kiosks are already up and running at the beginning of the Cultural Exchange's operation. Several more are to follow contingent on the Pathfinder blazing trails across the Heleus Cluster.
The turian, asari, krogan, salarian, and human VIs each provide a brief introduction to their race's distinctive traits and history. The Citadel, ark Hyperion, and outpost representations provide the would-be alien visitor a glimpse into the colonists' homes, means of arrival, and former form of government. All of them present highly sanitized portrayals of how things actually were in the galaxy the Initiative left behind.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
The three kiosks inactive at the start are the Pathfinder stall, dependent on how Pathfinder Ryder wishes it to appear, and conflicts representing the First Contact War and the Krogan Rebellions. The latter two focus not on the enmities raised, but rather how races managed to coexist afterward.
Jaal Ama Darav, once he joins the Tempest crew, can be found here whenever Ryder visits the Nexus, taking in the culture of his new compatriots.
If Ryder investigates Jien Garson's death, her VI in the Cultural Exchange discloses what she knows after receiving the appropriate passcode. It also gives another password, "Fulcrum", for use once Alec Ryder's final memory blocks are encountered.

Missions[]



Allies and Relationships
Ryder Family Secrets


Additional Tasks
Task: Broken Wires
Task: Programming a Pathfinder




