




Cyone

Region
Milky Way / Silean Nebula / Kypladon





Planet View


Orbital Distance
0.9 AU


Orbital Period
1.0 Earth Year


Keplerian Ratio
0.729


Radius
6,271 km


Day Length
39.6 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.84 atm


Surface Temp
23 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.95 g


Mass
0.912 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Silean Nebula / Kypladon System /  Second planet


Colony

Species
Asari


Capital
Polos


Colony Founded
322 CE


Population
260 million



Prerequisite: Priority: Geth Dreadnought (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Missions
4 Trivia


Description[]
This garden world's claim to military fame is its [sic] that it was assaulted repeatedly during the Krogan Rebellions, but never occupied by more than token forces. The asari cut off the krogan supply line at the Citadel relay and drove the invaders out. Today, antimatter generators on the surface and in orbital stations provide fuel for military starships throughout asari space. The matriarchs defending the planet today have vowed to maintain Cyone's legacy--they pledge it will fall to no enemy, organic or synthetic.

Codex Entry[]
Cyone, a fortified world under the protection of several asari matriarchs, has begun to supply fuel to Systems Alliance forces in the hope that an asari-human partnership might prevent the Reapers from seizing the planet. Alliance forces have since established several outposts in the system.
The humans and asari have been joined by a small detachment of turians, drawn from the private militia of a corporate conglomerate that does business with Cyone. The three species are so determined to defend Cyone that integration issues have been negligible.
The task force has already thrown back several Reaper attacks, although the commanders express concern that small Reaper forces could have slipped through despite their vigilance.

Missions[]
Mission: Citadel: Chemical Treatment
Mission: N7: Fuel Reactors
Trivia[]
The Mass Effect 3 multiplayer map Firebase Reactor is located on Cyone.
Cyone is a mission location in the N7 HQ Galaxy at War mini-game for Mass Effect 3.
A polos, the name of Cyone's capital city, is a high cylindrical crown worn by mythological goddesses of the Ancient Near East and Anatolia.



