









Daanfre
Biological Reseacher

Race
Angara


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Daanfre is a scientist outside the Resistance Headquarters on Aya. She discreetly takes scans of Pathfinder Ryder while they're wandering around her.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Daanfre wanted to compare the alien visitors' internal biology with those of the angara's, seeing as there are many external similarities with both. She already scanned several exiles in other angaran colonies, and did not get a good first impression from them.
Daanfre's job entails researching and developing organic "tactical equalizers" against enemies of the angara. Her scanning project isn't sponsored by Evfra de Tershaav or Paaran Shie, it's of her own volition, and anything she learns she will share with the rest of her kind. As a scientist, she wants to understand anything outside her knowledge and experience.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Should Ryder come talk to her, Daanfre acts dispassionate and doesn't desire interaction. Upon badgering she asks for a full-spectrum analysis of the Pathfinder's biology, and is permitted to do so. She scoffs if Ryder requests to scan her first, though she relents.
Family is everything for Daanfre, not just the ones currently living but also those who follow them. She already has 23 grandchildren, and she worries what their grandchildren will inherit with the threat of extinction hanging over their heads and the arrival of these extragalactic aliens. If Ryder shares their father's death, Daanfre opines Alec knew their offspring still carries his legacy. If Ryder understands the importance of family to the angara, Daanfre tells them they only see the surface.
Following the scanning incident, Daanfre can be asked about her perspective on various matters. Even with the successive Scourge and kett disasters, Daanfre's confident her race can weather them all. She deems human physiology tough, but warns they still won't have an easy life on Heleus, and against enemies though humans lack biological advantages it may be offset with their technology. Ryder's impressed with angaran bioelectricity, though she takes a more pedestrian view that it's not worth thinking about.




