









Asari Slaver




Race
Asari


Type
Organic


Armament
Pistols,Assault Rifles


Abilities
 Throw Warp Barrier Lift Marksman


Health
Moderate


Shields
Low


Locations
Sharjila


Dahlia Dantius is the sister of the asari diplomat Nassana Dantius. 







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Dahlia is, in fact, a slaver and the leader of a band of pirates in the Artemis Tau cluster. Her group specializes in slaving, and includes humans, turians, salarians and krogan, operating out of a stronghold on Sharjila. Dahlia, though not an asari commando, is a formidable biotic and a well-trained combatant.
Dahlia is actually the black sheep of a prominent family; her sister, Nassana Dantius, is a diplomatic emissary on the Citadel. Knowing Nassana would be heavily monitored or even demoted if her sister's activities are revealed, Dahlia decided to blackmail Nassana and received a large sum of credits as a result.
Unfortunately, Dahlia underestimated her sister. Nassana retaliates by contacting Commander Shepard. She claims Dahlia is an innocent victim who has been kidnapped by mercenaries, and points the Commander to Dahlia's base. Taken by surprise, Dahlia rallies her men to defend the base, but is killed in the assault. Alternatively, Shepard can learn about both sisters only in the aftermath of the attack, though Nassana is still willing to reward the Commander for preemptively dealing with her sister.

Tactics[]
Dahlia is armed with a pistol and an assault rifle, though she seldom uses the latter.
She mostly or always comes down from the upper level, strafes to her left and hugs the wall (while moving toward the back of the room), until she reaches roughly the halfway point of that wall; at this point, she heads for Shepard. In this maneuver, she tends to be accompanied by a (human) sniper. Using this tactic, most of her pirates will have already begun attacking Shepard and squad, and accordingly her biotics become an unwelcome surprise to the fight.
As with most fights in such an environment as her compound, crowd-control powers provide a large advantage. Use throw, singularity, lift, or the like, to knock her and any nearby enemies off their feet, making them easier targets for your weapons.
Dahlia cannot be ragdolled by high impact ammo like High Explosive Rounds or Sledgehammer Rounds, except if dealt as a killing shot.
Legendary Edition:  Dahlia no longer flings Throws at Shepard, though she may occasionally hit squadmates with it.
Trivia[]
Being that her identity was unknown at the time she was killed, she is labeled as "Asari Slaver" in the course of the fight as opposed to her actual name.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





