









Darius Retainer




Race
Human,  Turian,  Krogan,  Salarian


Type
Organic


Armament
Pistols, Shotguns, Sniper Rifles, Assault Rifles


Abilities
 Assassination Immunity Overload Shield Boost Krogan Regeneration (krogan only) Berserker Charge (krogan only)


Health
Moderate


Shields
High


Locations
Nonuel


Darius Retainers are people that are employed by Lord Darius to do his work and protect him. They are found at Darius' headquarters on the planet Nonuel.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Lord Darius was supplied with arms to fight off batarians in the Skyllian Verge. Once the batarians were gone, the Alliance pulled their support of Darius and groups like his. However, Darius then took to pirating Element Zero from the planet on which his base is located and intimidating the colonists and miners to get it. Admiral Hackett sends Commander Shepard to negotiate with Darius before the situation gets too out of hand.

Tactics[]
Darius Retainers have four to five bars of shielding; as is the case with all ME enemies, it will regenerate over time. Their health regenerates as well and they have access to the Immunity ability, as well as Shield Boost on Insanity. They will take cover quite often and flank you if given the chance to do so.
Most Retainers will usually start off with assault rifles, but switch to shotguns at close range. The sniper Retainers are instead equipped with sniper rifles and pistols and possess the Assassination ability. Using Sabotage will simply force Retainers to switch from their current weapon rather than leaving them completely defenceless like Geth Troopers or Snipers.
Krogan Retainers have more health than others, can charge you for melee damage and will be able to get back up the first time they’re killed. Equip Chemical, Incendiary and High Explosive Rounds or kill them in the air (by using Lift, Throw or Singularity) to prevent this revival and use Throw or Neural Shock to counter their charge.
Snipers’ Assassination is very dangerous and can kill a weakened Shepard in one shot. It will always be preceded by a targeting laser beam, during which time you can take cover and disable the sniper with Sabotage or Lift, or simply activate a defensive ability like Immunity, Barrier or Shield Boost.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





