









Davin Reynolds




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Armament
Pistol


Abilities
Unknown


Health
Low


Shields
Very Low


Locations
Feros


Davin Reynolds is a human colonist living at Zhu's Hope, on Feros. He and his wife, Greta Reynolds, moved to Feros seeking adventure and a new life together.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




While his wife watches the barricades for attacking geth, Davin is currently in charge of obtaining food for the colonists at Zhu's Hope. He hunts varren, but the presence of a vicious alpha male varren makes it harder for him to get to them; Commander Shepard can help by killing the alpha male.
Like the rest of the Zhu's Hope colonists, he is under the influence of the Thorian. Reynolds, like most of the other colonists, does not show any signs of being controlled by the Thorian until Commander Shepard returns to Zhu's Hope from the ExoGeni Headquarters, upon which Davin and the colonists attack Shepard's squad, in addition to the SSV Normandy. Shepard can choose to kill Reynolds and the rest of the colonists, or merely incapacitate them with anti-Thorian gas grenades or melee knockouts.
If Davin survived the Thorian's destruction while Greta was killed, he mourns losing her and everything else in the aftermath. He is too distraught for further conversation. Otherwise, if he and Greta both lived and the rest of the colony survived, he thanks Shepard for everything they did and for giving him and his wife a chance to start over. He never expected much trouble, though he supposes it comes with living in a frontier world. He notes the Thorian controlled his people with pain.
If too many colonists died, he supposes all of Shepard's efforts were for naught as all of them will be leaving anyway, even if they had enough food from varren.

See Also[]
Alliance News Network
"Lovable Varren Goes from Home to Home, Changing Lives"


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





