


For decryption puzzles in Mass Effect: Andromeda, see Remnant Decryption Puzzle Guide.

Decryption is a tech talent available to Engineers, Infiltrators, Sentinels, the Turian Agent, and the Quarian Machinist. The talent allows the unlocking of sealed doors and containers, as well as the use of the Sabotage ability.

Contents

1 Talent Levels
2 Sabotage

2.1 Sabotage
2.2 Advanced Sabotage
2.3 Master Sabotage


3 Classes
4 References



Talent Levels[]
Level 1: Sabotage; can use decryption skill on easy objects.
Level 2: Increases the tech mine explosion damage done by sabotage, damping, and EMP [sic][1] by 10%.
Level 3: Increases the tech explosion damage by 14%.
Level 4: Increases the tech explosion damage by 18%. Unlocks Electronics (Sentinel), Damping (Turian Agent).
Level 5: Advanced Sabotage; can use decryption skill on average objects.
Level 6: Increases the tech explosion damage by 20%.
Level 7: Increases the tech explosion damage by 22%. Unlocks First Aid (Infiltrator), Hacking (Engineer, Quarian Machinist).
Level 8: Increases the tech explosion damage by 24%.
Level 9: Master Sabotage; can use decryption skill on hard objects.
Level 10: Increases the tech explosion damage by 26%.
Level 11: Increases the tech explosion damage by 28%.
Level 12: Increases the tech explosion damage by 30%.
Sabotage[]
For the Mass Effect 3 power, see Sabotage.
One of the core talents for tech characters, Sabotage, at its most basic, is used to stop an enemy from firing at you. This is useful on all gun-carrying opponents but especially more heavy-duty enemies like Geth Colossi or Geth Armatures if you are fighting them on foot, to kill their Siege Pulse; turrets, to stop them firing rockets at you; or snipers, to allow you to move freely out in the open.
However, Sabotage works specifically by overheating weapons, meaning it can be used on other targets too. Hitting containment cells or fuel tanks with Sabotage will cause them to explode, causing environmental damage and, in some areas, starting a massive chain reaction. On the downside, this means you need to be careful if you hit a nearby enemy with Sabotage while standing near anything explosive. Also, Sabotage will not disable organic-based attacks such as those used by the Rachni or Thorian Creepers. Using Sabotage will also place a tech proximity mine.
Some enemies, like Geth Hoppers, also use Sabotage against you, rendering your weapon useless. In this event, either switch to another weapon, use your biotics or tech talents, or take cover until your primary weapon has recovered. Higher levels of tech resistance stats (aka "hardening") will reduce the duration of the Sabotage; this also applies to enemies with high tech resistance as well. 
Being Sabotaged also prevents you from using any special weapon-related abilities for the duration of the effect, even one tied to a weapon that is not overheated and can still fire. For example, if you are Sabotaged and you have an assault rifle out that overheats and can't fire, you won't be able to use Overkill with the assault rifle; while you can switch to a sniper rifle that can fire without overheating, the Assassination ability will nonetheless be disabled and can't be used until Sabotage wears off.

Sabotage[]
Does 50 damage in a 6m radius. Overheats enemy weapons. Burns them for 2 damage per second.

Duration: 15 sec.
Recharge time: 60 sec.
Accuracy cost: 60%
Advanced Sabotage[]
Does 100 damage in a 8m radius. Overheats enemy weapons. Burns them for 3 damage per second.

Duration: 20 sec.
Recharge time: 50 sec.
Accuracy cost: 60%
Master Sabotage[]
Does 150 damage in a 10m radius. Overheats enemy weapons. Burns them for 4 damage per second.

Duration: 25 sec.
Recharge time: 40 sec.
Accuracy cost: 60%
Classes[]
The following classes have the Decryption talent tree:

Engineer Starting
Infiltrator Starting
Sentinel Starting
Quarian Machinist Starting
Turian Agent Starting
References[]

↑ Almost certainly Overload is meant here as there is no ability named "EMP" (see Talk).




Mass Effect Talents


Biotic

Barrier • Lift • Singularity • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Assault Rifles • Pistols • Shotguns • Sniper Rifles • Assault Training • Fitness • Basic Armor • Combat Armor • Tactical Armor


Tech

Damping • Decryption • Electronics • First Aid • Hacking • Medicine


Class

Adept • Asari Scientist • Engineer • Infiltrator • Krogan Battlemaster • Quarian Machinist • Sentinel • Soldier • Turian Agent • Vanguard


Player only

Charm • Intimidate • Spectre Training




