









Defense Drone




Type
Synthetic


Armament
Mass Accelerator Cannon


Abilities
Unknown


Health
Moderate


Shields
Very High


Locations
Asteroid X57







This article is about the enemy in Mass Effect. For the power in Mass Effect 3, see Defense Drone (power). For the skill in Mass Effect: Andromeda, see Defense Drone (skill).

Defense Drones are drones used by the team that is deployed on Asteroid X57 for security purposes. The drones are scattered all over the asteroid, defending positions. They are armed with a Mass Accelerator Machine Gun. 







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




During the mission to stop the batarian extremists, Shepard and the squad encounter these defense drones that have been reprogrammed by the batarians, or activated by the facility's engineers to stop the takeover of the asteroid.

Tactics[]
The drones are encountered in the main facility on X57 and around the asteroid, and are similar to the Advanced Assault Drones employed by the Alliance and other governments. Because they are equipped with machine guns keep an eye on your shields. Whether facing them on foot or in the Mako, their machine guns can tear right through them. While you are in combat at the main facility, the drones keep coming, so make liberal use of cover.
These drones tend to fly around more than other drones that are encountered, so make sure to stay on the move. As with all flying enemies, these drones are immune to most biotic attacks.
There are a few drones that can be combated while you are in the Mako, so the same principle applies as with other drones. If you are going to use the Mako to attack them, then try to use the machine gun rather than the main cannon. Since it is hard to get a decent shot with the main gun, using the machine gun or getting out might be a better option.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





