


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
Kadara Slums is an area beneath Kadara Port. Poorer exiles who cannot afford the premium fees to live topside often eke out a living here, and the most desperate among them will kill and loot their fellows just to survive. The slums aren't under the protection of the Outcasts, although they still maintain a presence here to keep unauthorized people from sneaking up.
Life in the slums is hard, and death isn't even a guarantee of peace. Corpses are often left where they lay, hastily hidden behind crates or sheets, or subject to further indignities by looters stripping them of whatever they have left for cheap drinks.

Contents

1 Layout
2 Residents
3 Missions
4 Datapads
5 Terminals







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Layout[]
The slums can be reached from The Docks of Kadara Port via an elevator. The vacant spot outside the slums sports a couple of geysers that emit steam hot enough to gradually damage shields. 
The slums are bounded by a gatehouse overseen by a krogan warden. The walls are low enough for jumpjet crossing without even passing through the gatehouse. Further outside of this gated community is the Haarfel region; there's ample space for a Forward Station for Nomad deployment and exploration of the badlands beyond.
The slums itself is a miserable collection of shipping containers barely functioning as living spaces and a nightclub that takes up about half the available area, amid radioactive puddles of water around uranium deposits. The nightclub, Tartarus, is a popular spot for all denizens of Kadara Port, and is a known lair of smuggler Reyes Vidal.
Locations in the slums can be sorted into the upper and lower levels. The lower levels consist of the first two tiers, and the upper levels consist of the rest.
At the ground level is the lower entrance of Tartarus, a couple of looters in an alley beside it, radioactive groundwater between Tartarus and the hovels, and an Outcast-run drug den inside the hovels. 
The second tier has the upper entrance to Tartarus as well as most of the slums' residents. Dr. Ryota Nakamoto operates a clinic here, next to a soup kitchen that apparently has ties to the Collective.
The third tier is mostly rooftops for existing structures, though a water purification station guarded by Outcasts can be accessed from a catwalk near Tartarus' upper entrance. The Black Market Dealer peddles her wares next to Dr. Nakamoto's living quarters above his clinic.
The uppermost levels of the slums consists of pipes that transport water from the sulfur springs outside for filtering into potable use.
The slums has numerous containers and mineral nodes for loot, especially in the lightless and secluded corners.

Residents[]
Black Market Dealer
Cassandra Verner
Cele
Derc
Disillusioned Outlaw
Dr. Ryota Nakamoto - Before the mission Modern Medicine.
Kian Dagher
Reyes Vidal
The Warden
Missions[]



Heleus Assignments
Modern Medicine
Murder in Kadara Port
Out of the Frying Pan
Precious Cargo
The Baryte Rush


Additional Tasks
Task: Outlaw Weapon Crafting
Task: Traitor or Victim?

Datapads[]



Sanjiv Clement: Last Words
Delaney Roos, the exile, took me from the Nexus against my will. When I wouldn't cooperate, she and her friends beat me and left me here to die. I have no way to contact anyone. I hope my mates on Nexus make it. Damn the exiles.


Sanjiv Clement


Terminals[]
In a shipping container directly above Dr. Nakamoto's clinic:




Personal Log 1: Ryota Nakamoto
New entry: The clinic is finally up and running. Well, "clinic" is a strong word. It's a shipping container that I scrubbed until my hands were raw. But it's the best I could do. 

I've no credits, very little supplies, and zero friends, but the people down here need me. Everywhere I look there's disease or someone injured. I knew life outside the Port was bad, but this is worse than I expected. 

It's the perfect place for me to atone. 


END LOG





Personal Log 2: Ryota Nakamoto
New entry: There's an oblivion den just around the corner. Against my better judgement, I tried to appeal to the guards to lower their dosage. All I received for my efforts was a punch in the stomach. 

I hope they don't harass the clinic. I'm barely keeping it afloat as it is. 


END LOG





Personal Log 2: Ryota Nakamoto
New entry: This morning I discovered someone mysteriously wired credits to my omni-tool. I think it's the same anonymous donor who keeps leaving supplies in the clinic. 

I asked Kian, the bartender at Tartarus, who my benefactor might be. He thinks it's the Charlatan. Apparently, it's common for the Collective to give gifts to potential recruits. I've no interest in joining them—I didn't quit Sloane's gang to join another—but I'm in no position to refuse supplies. As long as they keep coming, I'll keep using them. 


END LOG



In the water purification room:




Conduct Complaint: Gess
Kaetus:

You need to talk to Gess. I don't know where she's driving. I don't know what she's getting into. But every time she comes back from the badlands, I swear the rover's on fire and missing two wheels.

This last time, I tried to tell her to cool it. She just scoffed and said "fix my shit, bitches." I know we're all basically pirates out here, but there's still something to be said for a little decorum.

Seriously.


Kaulin





Heads up
Sending down another group who couldn't pay their fees. Help the warden get them through processing. They're a rowdy bunch.


Kaetus





Report: Tartarus
Kaetus:

I checked out Tartarus for Collective activity. Just a bunch of drunks and second-rate dancers.

That being said, I should probably scope it out again tonight. Best to be thorough.


Jack





