


The Destiny Ascension is an asari dreadnought and flagship of the Citadel Fleet. It is a starship of stunning power; according to a volus visitor, it has almost as much firepower as the rest of the asari fleet combined. The Ascension is currently commanded by Matriarch Lidanya.
Contents

1 Specifications
2 Mass Effect
3 Mass Effect 2
4 Mass Effect 3
5 Trivia


Specifications[]
The Ascension is four times the size of the largest human ship, and boasts a crew of nearly 10,000. It can be seen passing the windows on the Upper Wards while people gather around to watch. A nearby volus can be heard talking excitedly about his recent tour of the Ascension: though he was aboard for six hours, he only saw 10% of the ship, for the vessel was simply far too large to tour completely. It is equipped with GARDIAN defenses.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
When the geth fleet, led by Sovereign, attacks the Citadel, the Council is evacuated to the Destiny Ascension as per standard emergency procedures. However, it fails to escape as its main drives are taken offline. With its kinetic barriers reduced to 40%, the arrival of the Alliance Fleet waiting in the Andura Sector is the Ascension's only hope of survival.
Commander Shepard has three choices: command the Alliance fleet to save the Destiny Ascension (at the cost of many human lives and potential reinforcements), concentrate the attack upon Sovereign (leaving the Destiny Ascension to be destroyed by the geth fleet), or allow the Council to die. The first option results in the Alliance destroying the geth ships attacking the Ascension, allowing the flagship to limp away while the Alliance deals with Sovereign. The latter two options result in the Alliance ignoring the Ascension's hails for assistance, ending in the asari dreadnought's destruction under sustained bombardment.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
If the Destiny Ascension survived the Battle of the Citadel, the vessel undergoes a twenty-colony victory cruise, completed in 2185. If it was destroyed, a news report states that the asari have ceded the corresponding share of responsibility for Citadel defense to the turians.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3[]
If the Destiny Ascension is saved, the asari have repaired and upgraded the dreadnought's shielding and firepower, making it a formidable asset after the Council offers its support in retaking Earth. It then takes part in the final space battle over Earth.

Trivia[]
The Destiny Ascension is only seen twice outside of cutscenes, during the flyby by the Upper Wards and during the SSV Normandy's escape from lockdown in the first game. In Mass Effect Legendary Edition, during the Wards flyby the ship's outer hull lost color and now shows as an all-black surface with the contouring of lights retained.
In Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3, Shepard is able to purchase a model of the Ascension for the Captain's Cabin on the Normandy SR-2.
In Mass Effect: Andromeda, Pathfinder Ryder can find a model of the Ascension on Elaaden for the Captain's Cabin on the Tempest.



