









Anaya
Nos Astra Detective

Race
Asari


Gender
Feminine


Voice Actor
Cindy Robinson[1]


Appearances
Mass Effect 2


Detective Anaya is an asari living and working in Nos Astra on Illium. She is employed as a detective of the Illium Law Enforcement, at a district police station.






“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




When Commander Shepard arrives at the Illium spaceport, Detective Anaya is seen investigating the murder of Dakni Kur, Pitne For's business partner. The detective gives Shepard specifics of the murder and, after giving the Commander permission to enter the crime scene, states the possibility of Eclipse mercenaries being responsible for the crime.
Anaya also notes to Shepard that Samara is investigating the crime. However, Anaya isn't particularly happy about Samara being in her district and wishes for Samara to leave as soon as possible. Upon meeting Samara, the detective is reluctant to detain the justicar but has no choice as she was given the order by her superiors, who fear that Samara may cause a cross-species incident. Although Samara willingly submits herself to detention for a day, Anaya considers her life at risk as she may be killed for obstructing Samara's investigation.
Following Samara pledging herself to Shepard's service after the successful retrieval of information the justicar required, Anaya can confide to Shepard that she's grateful the Commander got Samara out of her hands. She's glad for the opportunity of meeting a justicar and swears to tell her grandkids the story, considering Shepard increased her chances of living long enough to have grandkids. 
If Shepard had information related to the recent murder of a volus (potentially Dakni Kur) and passes it along to the detective, Anaya takes a look but declares the evidence to be inadmissible. Samara speaks up and vouches for Shepard, forcing the detective to concur with the justicar. Anaya approves of the action taken whether the suspect escaped or was killed, as she'll eventually get the suspect if the former and that's one less criminal off the streets if the latter.
In either aforementioned interaction (or in the absence of the latter), Anaya forms an opinion of Shepard depending on their disposition. If Shepard was rude to her, Anaya remarks they're not big on charm but get the job done, but still feels they shouldn't talk down to her. She bids the Commander good luck but isn't sorry to see them go. If Shepard handled her professionally, Anaya's relieved trusting stranger humans was productive. She advises the Commander to value the justicar as she never heard of one working with a human.
Additionally, Shepard may hand over evidence to Anaya with information about Pitne For's illegal smuggling activities in return for a monetary reward.
After Samara has been recruited into the squad, Detective Anaya will send Shepard this e-mail, titled Still alive.




From: Detective Anaya

Greetings, Commander--

I'm not completely sure this will get to you, but thanks again for helping me deal with Samara. The Eclipse mercs have gotten real quiet around here, and my superiors have backed off, too. No idea if the two are related, but hopefully the next time I meet a justicar, I can give her the respect she deserves.

I still can't believe I worked a case with one of them. You're a lucky human. If I find any more data on her target, I'll pass it along.

Thanks,

Detective Anaya

Illium Law Enforcement


References[]

↑ https://www.pcgamesn.com/sonic-frontiers/characters-cast





