




Barrett

 







Faction
Outlaws


Weapons / Attacks
M-8 Avenger


Abilities
–


Health
Normal


Shields
–


Weak Points
Head


Dirk Barrett is the spokesperson for a trio of exiles on Elaaden.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




If Pathfinder Ryder ventures near their refuge by the edge of a giant sinkhole northeast of The Paradise, Barrett identifies via comms as non-hostile and implores the visitors to forego shooting. Barrett is glad Ryder didn't immediately shoot him in the face, although if the Pathfinder didn't actually come to him to talk he and his companions are easily killed in the brief fight.
If Ryder chooses to hear him out, Barrett turns out to be surprisingly level-headed and explains he and his group do not want to die. While most other people in the wasteland will shoot anything that moves (and each other) and have zero long-term prospects for survival, Barrett is willing to be diplomatic and requests the Pathfinder's help in securing his own survival.
If Ryder expresses reservations at helping exiles, Barrett points out they're no threat to the Andromeda Initiative as they're barely surviving themselves. He only wants a self-sufficient community able to defend itself and survive without killing or stealing, and to that end he wants to move to a place more easily fortified than the one they're currently holed in.
Barrett points to a camp 20 clicks west from their position, occupied by a gang that wasn't properly utilizing its resources. The base has an armory with a stockpile of heavy munitions that can be used to attack a colony. If Ryder clears out the base and entrusts Barrett with the munitions, Barrett considers it a fine bonus and bids the Pathfinder safe travels after thanking them; otherwise, he's still grateful for the base although none the wiser about the armory. In any case he rewards the Pathfinder with a container of the stuff they hoarded, and now plans to move into their new home after a day or two once their preparations are complete.
If asked about their circumstances, Barrett reveals he and his companions eventually realized they did not want to live indefinitely by the barrel of a gun - the prevailing mindset on Elaaden. They didn't settle on Kadara because they thought Elaaden was a better choice at the time, and they were bothered by Sloane Kelly encroaching on angaran territory.

Barret's move to his new outpost is eventful, as Ryder arrives to help repel intruders. Barrett has upgraded his helmet and now wields a Sandstorm in lieu of his old weapon. If talked to in the aftermath, if he was told about the munitions stockpile he reveals he put it to good use fending off an attack just hours after his group settled in. There's still a lot of materiel left, and he plans to take the fight to the other groups once his men are better trained.
Ryder can agree with his line of thinking, or point out he's contributing to the same problem. If the latter, Barrett promises to get away from the anarchy and chaos, but only if the other threats are neutralized. He reasons one can't have order when there are always people fighting against it, and if persuasion won't work, elimination will.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Barrett is armed with the M-8 Avenger.

Defensive
Barrett is unprotected by shields, armor, or barriers.

Tactics[]
Barrett and his companions are essentially trapped in their small metal container and, unless deliberately ignored, won't be able to muster any meaningful offensive against Ryder once combat begins.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




