




Dis

Milky Way / Hades Gamma







System View


Stellar Mass
N/A


Stellar Class
N/A


Luminosity
N/A


Planets
5


Moons
0


Asteroid Belts
1


Asteroids
1


Objects
0



Prerequisite: UNC: Hostile Takeover (Mass Effect)


Dis is a system of four terrestrial planets and one gas giant. Batarians have a vested interest in the region: they falsified data on Klensal to make it look like a rich world, luring human businesses to develop some infrastructure on the system and bankrupting them when the proverbial "gold rush" turned out to be bust.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.









“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Batarians have also discovered the remains of a billion-year-old starship on Jartar, and publicly denied its existence upon its recovery. This "Leviathan of Dis" turned out to be a Reaper corpse. People working on the corpse became indoctrinated and contributed to the downfall of the Batarian Hegemony during the Reapers' invasion of the galaxy in 2186.

Contents

1 Gremar
2 Jartar
3 Klensal
4 Metallic Asteroid
5 Nearrum
6 Raysha
7 Trivia


Gremar[]
Gremar is the fourth planet orbiting the star Dis.

Main article: Gremar
Jartar[]
Jartar is the first planet orbiting the star Dis.

Main article: Jartar
Klensal[]
Klensal is the third planet orbiting the star Dis.

Main article: Klensal
Assignment: UNC: Hostile Takeover
Collection: UNC: Locate Signs of Battle: League of One Medallion ×1
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals: Heavy Metal ×1 / Light Metal ×1
Metallic Asteroid[]
A metal-rich asteroid. Radius: 94 km.

Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals:  Light Metal ×1
Nearrum[]
Nearrum is the second planet orbiting the star Dis.

Main article: Nearrum
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals:  Light Metal ×1
Raysha[]
Raysha is the fifth planet orbiting the star Dis.

Main article: Raysha
Collection: UNC: Turian Insignias: Insignias ×1
Trivia[]
The system is probably named for Dis Pater, commonly shortened to Dis, a name that has become an alternative name for the underworld, Hades' realm in ancient Greek mythology, hereby recalling the parent cluster's name. It might also be named after the City of the Dead in Dante's Inferno, which itself takes its name from the mythological Dis.



