







“Are you kidding? No one will believe I talked with Commander Shepard unless I get a picture!”
This article would benefit from more and/or higher quality screenshots.See here for help uploading images, or ask an admin.


Location: Andromeda / Heleus Cluster / Govorkam / Kadara
Ditaeon is the Andromeda Initiative's outpost on Kadara.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




      
Contents

1 History
2 Layout
3 Residents
4 Missions
5 Datapads and Terminals


History[]
The establishment of the outpost  was made possible after a fragile peace was negotiated between the human Pathfinder and exile leadership in the port. Due to the recent conflict between the Nexus and the exiles, the establishment of the outpost on Kadara annoys several members of the Initiative. Most of the colonists are former members of the Mining Company 07 that was active in Element Zero mining on Mars. It is also a place for some exiles eager to have a second chance with the Initiative.
Led by former miners, Ditaeon focuses on mining the pirate planet's bedrock. The objective is to mine the natural abundance of sulfur mineral deposits of the planet to produce a potent phosphate fertilizer. By doing so, Ditaeon provides nutrients for gardens across Initiative worlds. 
The name of the outpost "Ditaeon" comes from an inside joke among the team and is the acronym for "deploy in the ass end of nowhere".

Layout[]
Ditaeon has one of the Research Centers on Kadara.

Residents[]
Christmas Tate - Mayor
Dru Senecus - Requisitions Officer
Dr. Ryota Nakamoto - Human Doctor - Moves to Ditaeon if Ryder completes Modern Medicine and returns the formula.
Nesi Cartar - Science Officer
Rif - Mining Engineer
Missions[]
The following Priority Ops missions take place or are acquired in Ditaeon:

None
The following Allies and Relationships missions take place or are acquired in Ditaeon:

Liam Kosta: Outpost Worlds
Ryder Family Secrets
The following Heleus Assignments missions take place or are acquired in Ditaeon:

Counting Bodies
Old Skinner
Settling Kadara
The following Additional Tasks take place or are acquired in Ditaeon:

Task: Boosting the Signal
Task: Cultivation
Datapads and Terminals[]



