


For other similar facilities, see Docking Bay (disambiguation).
This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 





“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




The Docks on Aya's capital city handles the Tempest whenever Pathfinder Ryder visits the world. It is a gateway into the capital.
In the aftermath of the Andromeda Initiative's official first contact with the angara, Ryder is initially allowed access to the docks only, with the rest of the city off-limits until further trust can be established.

Contents

1 Layout
2 Notable Characters
3 Missions
4 Terminals and Datapads


Layout[]
The docks are situated along the cliffs of a lake supplied by an intersection of waterfalls. It has enough immediate space to accommodate two small shuttles; a frigate-sized starship like the Tempest has its own dedicated berth farther out above the lake, reachable via extendable drawbridge.
Two guards defend the entrance to the city. The Port Captain's office is next to the city door, also inaccessible until Ryder's allowed entry into the rest of the city. It has a Research Center, as well as the necessary equipment for monitoring a network of angaran satellites throughout the cluster.

Notable Characters[]
Avela Kjar (initial only)
Enroh Bosaan (initial only)
Maariko
Sohkaa Esof (only until completion of related mission)
Port Captain Arjen
Missions[]



Priority Ops
A Trail of Hope I
A Trail of Hope II


Heleus Assignments
Movie Night: Snacks
Movie Night: The Right Setup
Recovering the Past
Safe Journeys
Trading Favors

Additional Tasks
Task: Messages to the Nexus
Task: Outpost Supplies on Elaaden
Task: Outpost Supplies on Eos
Task: Outpost Supplies on Kadara
Task: Outpost Supplies on Voeld
Task: The Nexus Exchange
Terminals and Datapads[]
Datapad



Goodbye
Translated from Shelesh:

My love,

I never planned to leave. Each moment I spent with you only brought me joy, even though you've never understood what you mean to me. There were moments I could have shown you how I really feel, but I wasn't brave enough. Not that you could have accepted me. Now I have to go, and I don't think I'm coming back.

I hope for a day when we owe nothing to anyone. I dream of a moment when we find each other again and claim the lives we always should have led.


--The message ends here--


Port Captain's Computer
This entry is later replaced by the entry below.




Cargo Manifest VEJ-97335
Translated from Shelesh:

The following items are cleared for immediate shipment to Voeld:
* 3 crates solar heater replacement parts, mixed
* 4 cases freeze-dried nutrient paste
* 2 crates GD-75 ammunition, explosive rounds
* 6 crates reinforced heat-retaining synthetic fabric

This item has been quarantined, pending Port Captain review:

* 3 unmarked cases of marljeh bottles, cask dates unknown



This entry can also be seen on Holographic Message Terminals.




TRAVEL ADVISORY: SECTOR 837
Translated from Shelesh:

Reports continue of hostile activity by scavengers and raiders throughout the Elaaden system sector. All spacecraft are advised to avoid traveling via established routes, as these seem to be well-known to the attackers. Please contact the Port Captain for updated safe navpoints through the Scourge.


As an additional precaution, do not share your travel itinerary or navpoint route with anyone who doesn't need to know, for your protection and theirs.





