



Docks: Holding Area is a location on the Citadel Presidium. It is directly below Normandy Dock: Bay D24. 
The holding area was formerly reserved for Alliance embassy deliveries. During the Reaper invasion, Councilor Udina issued a Council motion to repurpose the docks into emergency civilian housing, which was unanimously approved. All major races have since contributed funding to the upkeep of the area.
The adjacent sections E24, E26, and E28 have been converted into a refugee camp to help accommodate the influx of people fleeing to the station. Over time, the number of refugees in the docks increases.

Points of Interest[]




Security Checkpoint
A refugee who is pleading with a dock officer to let his family come aboard the Citadel. Interacting with either one yields 2 Reputation. Siding with the refugee loses 2 War Assets, while siding with the officer gains 7 War Assets.
Solik Vass can be found here. (After the attack on the Citadel)
Although a green door interface is visible down the hallway, the area beyond the checkpoint is not accessible to Shepard.




Bay E24
Avina is located between some benches near a service desk.
Conrad Verner can be found here while Shepard investigates some sabotaged medi-gel dispensers.




Bay E26
A batarian and a human refugee relating their experiences on their homeworlds. (Before the attack on the Citadel)




Bay E28
James Vega is often found here playing poker.
A turian C-Sec officer trying to comfort a young human girl waiting for her parents who are long overdue. (After the attack on the Citadel)
A refugee trying to get more food by offering the location of several Prothean ruins. (After the attack on the Citadel)




Cargo Hold: A
Garrus Vakarian can be found here. (Before the attack on the Citadel)
The store model of the Shepard VI is found here.
Darner Vosque can be found here while recruiting the Blue Suns for Aria.
Sayn can be found here while recruiting the Eclipse for Aria.




Cargo Hold: B
Kelly Chambers can be found here if she survived the Collector abduction and Shepard had invited her to dinner in the captain's cabin.
A human doctor trying to fix a medi-gel sabotage that is endangering the lives of turian patients.
Tactus, the refugees' leader, can be found here to negotiate a trade of supplies.




Cargo Hold: C
The Batarian State Arms shop terminal is located here.
A batarian preacher trying to motivate the batarian refugees.
Zaeed Massani can be found here after dealing with the volus ambassador.
Ghorek, an injured batarian terrorist can be found here while investigating a batarian terrorist.
If he's not playing cards, James Vega will be found here, getting a tattoo.




Memorial Wall
Steve Cortez can be found saying his goodbyes to his late husband.
Ashley Williams can be found here comforting her sister.

Missions[]
Aria: Blue Suns
Aria: Eclipse
Citadel: Batarian Codes (Terminal location)
Citadel: Hanar Diplomat (Terminal locations)
Citadel: Inspirational Stories
Citadel: Medical Supplies
Citadel: Medi-Gel Sabotage
Citadel: Wounded Batarian
Hades Nexus: Prothean Sphere
Kite's Nest: Pillars of Strength



