









Doctor Saleon




Race
Salarian


Type
Organic


Armament
Pistol, Assault Rifle


Abilities
None


Health
Very Low


Locations
MSV Fedele


Doctor Saleon is a salarian geneticist who used to work on the Citadel. He came to Garrus Vakarian's attention during a C-Sec investigation.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Garrus tells Shepard that, a few years ago, he was assigned to investigate black market trading on the Citadel, and found there was an increase in the sale of body parts. C-Sec was unsure whether it was a lab selling organs illegally, or if a psychopath was dismembering people, yet the situation turned out to be more complex than this. Garrus ran a DNA check on a recovered turian liver, only to find the supposed donor was very much alive. He later found that this turian had worked for Dr. Saleon. Garrus inspected Saleon's lab, but there was no sign of any cloned body parts nor the machinery to grow them: "no salarian hearts, no turian livers, not one krogan testicle".
Running out of ideas, Garrus brought in some of Saleon's employees for a "chat". During the interrogation, one interviewee began bleeding and the C-Sec medics found that he had fresh incisions all over his body. It turned out that Saleon was using his employees, who were usually poor and desperate, as living test tubes: cloning their organs, growing them inside their own bodies, then removing and selling them, giving his employees a small percentage of the profits. If the organs failed to grow properly, Saleon would simply leave them inside the body, with dire consequences for the employees' health.
C-Sec went to arrest Saleon, but, knowing his operation had been discovered, Saleon destroyed his lab, snatched some of his employees and fled the Citadel on his ship. Garrus wanted the Citadel defence forces to shoot Saleon down, but C-Sec overrode his order since the vessel was too close to the station, and Saleon escaped. The doctor later changed his name to 'Dr R. Heart'—"his idea of a joke"—and switched ships, buying and equipping the MSV Fedele to continue his research. Garrus tells Shepard that he has the transponder codes for Saleon's ship. Shepard agrees to investigate it, and Garrus asks to be taken along.
If Shepard's team boards the MSV Fedele, the Commander finds test subjects resembling Thorian Creepers wandering the cargo bay. Dr. Saleon is found in one of the compartments at the back. If Garrus is in the party, he recognises the salarian, though Saleon pretends to be innocent. Shepard can allow Garrus to execute Saleon or convince him that it would be better to arrest the doctor. Even if Garrus is convinced, Saleon refuses to be taken in, and is killed in the ensuing firefight.



Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





