









Donovan Hock
Weapons Dealer

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
John Ullyatt


Appearances
Mass Effect: FoundationMass Effect 2



“May there always be a market for the things we do.”
Donovan Hock is a weapons dealer, smuggler, and patron of the arts.

Contents

1 Mass Effect: Foundation
2 Mass Effect 2
3 Mass Effect 3
4 See Also
5 References







“I guess I want to stand for something too.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Foundation follow.




Mass Effect: Foundation[]
Two thieves attempted to break into Hock's property on the planet Bekenstein, but they faced heavier-than-expected resistance and were forced to split up. Hock was on his estate when this happened, personally murdering one of the thieves, Keiji Okuda. He stabbed a device in Keiji's head that forcibly extracted the man's graybox, eager to learn about the secrets within. 
As he left, Hock remarked that he has never stolen a person's memories before, sadistically commending the dying man to consider the action an "honor".







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
Speaking with a strong Afrikaans[1] accent, Hock resides in a mansion on Bekenstein, surrounded by fields and a lake, with a city in the distance. He is a patron of artist June Fasha. His mansion contains a vault with priceless artifacts and works of art including Michelangelo's David and the head of the Statue of Liberty. How he obtained these items is unknown. 
Hock killed Kasumi Goto's former partner, Keiji Okuda, and stole his graybox, which contained a secret that, if exposed, would implicate the Systems Alliance. However, Okuda had encrypted the graybox. Hock obsessed over it and kept close tabs on the decryption process, storing the graybox in his vault when not in use.
Hock throws a lavish party at his Bekenstein residence, inviting high-society criminals and expecting tributes in return. Kasumi gets wind of this and manages to secure Commander Shepard an invite using fabricated credentials designed to impress Hock. During the event, Hock welcomes Shepard under their guise of "Solomon/Allison Gunn" and their tribute of a golden Saren Arterius statue, but turns away the incognito Kasumi for arbitrary reasons.
Kasumi nevertheless gets in and peels away at the vault's security with Shepard's assistance. Should Shepard induce Hock to keep talking for his voiceprint, Hock claims the party is for himself and his friends who are "doing the terrible things to keep the galaxy spinning", envying the common folk who only have to worry about simple luxuries while they, the "cleaners", form the "support structure for the galaxy's gleeful delusions of peace." He gets a standing ovation from his guests and basks in their adulation in the aftermath of the impromptu speech.
Kasumi and Shepard eventually infiltrate Hock's vault, but when they recover the graybox, Hock -- who had suspected Kasumi's involvement -- shows up as a holographic projection and confronts Shepard and Kasumi. After his mechs and Eclipse mercs fail to stop them, Hock takes matters into his own hands by flying an A-61 Mantis Gunship, equipped with its own personal shield. Kasumi, however, gets in close and disables the shield, allowing herself and the Commander to shoot Hock down. Hock is killed in the resulting explosion.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3[]
Hock is apparently successful in decrypting Keiji's graybox if Shepard wasn't able to help Kasumi retrieve it. Salarian Spectre Jondum Bau pays him off for intel in connection to a case he is pursuing: the Alliance covered up a raid to a batarian outpost, and hanar were complicit in leading the Alliance to the outpost. 
Donovan Hock is regarded to be an unpleasant man by the Spectre.

See Also[]
Cerberus Daily News
"Connected Unveiled at Milgrom Museum of Art Seasonal Reopening" story
References[]

↑ http://social.bioware.com/forum/1/topic/105/index/2147782/6#2178602dead link, no backup





