







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.






Dorado

 







Faction
OutlawsCollective


Weapons / Attacks
M-97 Viper


Abilities
–


Health
Normal


Shields
Normal


Weak Points
Head


Dorado is a beastmaster working for the Collective. Secretly she has been profiting off the Collective by impersonating the Charlatan and passing off her orders as theirs. When two recruits got killed because of her actions, Crux furtively sanctions an investigation to expose her identity. Pathfinder Ryder can help with the issue through SAM's scanning capabilities.
In the course of eliminating other suspects in the Collective Base SAM's scans show Dorado has high levels of sulfur in her clothes and elevated levels of stress, the former a telltale sign given that it is known the imposter has been to Sulfur Springs and the latter a telltale sign SAM differentiates on through her responses to Ryder. Dorado claims she hasn't slept in 36 hours when questioned due to following the Charlatan's orders.
As it turns out, Dorado's mission was supposed to be on Kadara Port and nowhere near the Springs. Ryder can help apprehend her discreetly if she's directly asked about her sulfur exposure. Dorado acknowledges her odorous situation, but claims she's not in the habit of discussing her orders to outsiders. When Crux hears of this, Dorado doesn't learn she has been discovered before it's too late.
If her loyalty to the Charlatan is questioned, however, Dorado becomes spooked and runs out of the base before the Collective apprehends her. Ryder and their squad are then forced to deal with her in the cave complex before she escapes.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Dorado has adhi to command in addition to her M-97 Viper armament.

Defensive
Dorado possesses normal shields and health.

Tactics[]
Dorado is essentially a named Sharpshooter (and registers as such if scanned), and therefore has inherited the enemy type's strengths and weaknesses.
Because the fight is in a close-quarters cave, Dorado and her beasts can be easily killed by well-placed damaging powers with a wide radius.
Trivia[]
Dorado is a constellation in Earth's southern sky.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




