


Zaeed Massani is, without a doubt, the most feared mercenary and bounty hunter in the galaxy. His services have been retained by Cerberus at extremely high cost. He is currently awaiting pickup on Omega.
Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Zaeed - The Price of Revenge

Prerequisite: Freedom's Progress (mission)

This mission is acquired automatically after adventuring through Freedom's Progress, provided you have the relevant DLC installed. In Mass Effect Legendary Edition it is included in the base game as with most of the trilogy's DLCs.




Zaeed Massani

- Expert in both personal and small unit combat
- Unparalleled mercenary soldier and bounty hunter
- Known for a willingness to get the job done, no matter the cost


Zaeed Massani is, without a doubt, the most feared mercenary and bounty hunter in the galaxy. His services have been retained by Cerberus at extremely high cost. He is currently awaiting pickup on Omega.


Walkthrough[]
Similar to Kasumi Goto's recruitment mission, this is a simple and effortless way to increase the number of your henchmen early. After some conversation you will gain Zaeed as a squad member regardless of your responses.

Upon docking on Omega, there is a yellow-armored guy standing in the alley a few meters from you, near the door that opens up to the plaza outside of Afterlife Club. That's Zaeed, who is brutalizing a batarian prisoner. Simply approaching them triggers a conversation, and there are morality points available at certain junctures. He has an unresolved mission the Illusive Man neglected to put on your dossier: Vido Santiago, the head of the Blue Suns, captured an Eldfell-Ashland Energy facility on Zorya. EAE hired Zaeed to deal with it, and Zaeed in turn would like your assistance on the matter.
At the end of the conversation, the prisoner tries to escape, though Zaeed shoots him in the leg. He will excuse himself to turn in this bounty, though he is already available as a squadmate and can be selected via squad member request.
Zaeed will be in the previously inaccessible Starboard Cargo Hold on the Engineering Deck of the Normandy SR-2. The mission Zaeed: The Price of Revenge, along with the Faia system of the Ismar Frontier cluster (and the Aquila system as well, if Firewalker Pack is not installed) will be unlocked after the completion of this mission.




