


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 







Leynomi Aridana
Astrophysics Lead

Race
Asari


Gender
Feminine


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Dr. Leynomi Aridana is a scientist who traveled aboard the Nexus to Andromeda. She is a space and mathematics whiz, and has a penchant for poetry.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




On Pathfinder Ryder's first visit to the Nexus Dr. Aridana can be found in Operations along with fellow scientists Chief Lucan and Professor Herik. Upon meeting the Pathfinder she offers her thanks, for the data gathered on the Scourge which will enable her team to better repair the damage it caused to the Nexus.
When approached she asks the Pathfinder to locate a missing team of scientists she sent to take readings on a section of the Scourge that was behaving anomalously. She also wants accurate planetary scans of worlds across the Heleus Cluster, for the Nexus plans to build a school and she intends to create an accurate model of the cluster to inspire young minds.
On Jarun Tann's office in Pathfinder HQ, Dr. Aridana can be heard arguing with the Director about their lack of knowledge on the Scourge. She says the Tempest's readings are helping along, but they've barely scratched the surface. Tann is being obstinate and refuses to accept excuses, so the doctor curtly bids him goodbye.
In order to solve some complicated math equations concerning strange transmissions patterns in the Scourge, she asks that the Pathfinder pass them directly to SAM node through an optical storage unit. However it is revealed that her equations contained a Trojan horse program, designed to sever the Pathfinder's connection indefinitely. 
When Ryder approaches Dr. Aridana on this act of foul play, she denies any involvement in inserting the virus. She maintains innocence as she abhors violence against all life, be it organic or synthetic. She believes someone may have altered her files and her colleagues confirm that there has been increased anti-AI sentiment on the Nexus. If Ryder asks about hangups with AI, Dr. Aridana believes synthetics have different needs and motivations that can have powerful implications. Organics' lack of understanding those issues leads to fear.
The other Pathfinders have also been working with Dr. Leynomi Aridana and her team on the problem of getting to Khi Tasira space station—believed to be Meridian at the time and heavily guarded by kett forces. Dr. Aridana tells Pathfinder Ryder that her team has been working on technology called "Ghost Storm" which when integrated with the Pathfinders' ships, can broadcast fake returns for the Tempest. The forged broadcasts will confuse the ketts' sensors and draw their ships off of Ryder's ship, which will buy Ryder some time. With enough of the ketts' ships diverted from protecting Khi Tasira, the Tempest can sneak onto Khi Tasira, drop off the Pathfinder team so that they can discover Meridian's secrets, and then be extracted once they've accomplished their mission. Ryder researched Dr. Aridana's Ghost Storm technology and utilized it in their mission to infiltrate Khi Tasira.




