


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 







Nakmor Drack
Veteran Warrior

Race
Krogan


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
Stanley Townsend


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda



“Do you have any idea how many humans I've watched die? You're meat. You spoil.”
Nakmor Drack [1]
is an aged and grizzled veteran, even by krogan standards. He has spent over 1,400 years causing a ruckus in the Milky Way, wearing the title of soldier, mercenary, and at times, pirate. When the loyal, but stubborn, veteran was given the chance to join his clan on a voyage to Andromeda, he had no choice but to sign up. Doing so would present him with a whole new galaxy of stuff to shoot.
Drack is the grandfather of Nexus Superintendent Nakmor Kesh[2]. He also has extensive prosthetics, and synthetic organ replacements as a result of catastrophic incidents he endured during his centuries-long life.

Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising
3 Mass Effect: Andromeda

3.1 Loyalty
3.2 Skills
3.3 Armament


4 Correspondence
5 Trivia
6 See also
7 References







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Born on Tuchanka around 700 CE, Drack was a young warrior when the Krogan Rebellions began in earnest. He and his krantt accounted for over two hundred kills, which, Drack claims, includes three of the then-newly founded Council Spectres. Drack is a descendant of Shiagur - the famed female Warlord of the Rebellions - and he has the clan brands to prove it.
Drack wasn't born into Clan Nakmor; he chose to join it when he came of age. He found the clan's shaman strong, and was enamored by the beauty of the Kraddack Wastes.
After the salarian-designed genophage ended the Rebellions, various bounties and military bulletins show Drack chose a new path as a pirate and soldier of fortune for whatever conflicts came his way. Over centuries of fighting, multiple injuries required several of his limbs and organs to be replaced with cybernetics. Eventually, Drack says, his search for one last horizon brought him to Andromeda. He originally traveled on the Nexus, along with many other members of Clan Nakmor, but left after the Nexus uprising.
Drack did not travel alone. He accompanied most of his clan to Andromeda, including ru'shan (granddaughter) Nakmor Kesh and clan leader Nakmor Morda. Kesh and Drack maintain a close relationship, exchanging regular messages, no matter where their duties in Heleus take them.
Drack is acquainted with Vetra Nyx through Kesh. During the construction of the Nexus, Vetra swiped some supplies he has been trying to get for his granddaughter right under his nose. He tried to threaten the turian, but she refused to be intimidated. He saw her again at Kesh's office, where he learned Vetra was working for Kesh all along. The two of them are still laughing at him for this incident.







“Same shit. Different galaxy.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising follow.




Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising[]
Drack was awoken with Morda to deal with mutineers threatening the Nexus. With the uprising crushed due to krogan help, he accompanied the clan leader into a meeting with the Nexus leadership to claim their promised seat in the council, and bore witness to Jarun Tann's refusal to honor the deal.
Kesh attempted to placate Morda, who had been demanding blood. Two of the krogan present, Kaje and Wratch, concurred with the clan leader. Drack intimidated both to hold their tempers: he punched Wratch in the chest when the latter suggested wrecking then rebuilding the Nexus, deeming it a wasteful gesture, and he glared at Kaje until the other one looked away. As for Morda, Drack recommended she listen to his granddaughter as she's more familiar with the two-faced councilors.
Drack's reputation for hardheadedness was legendary among Clan Nakmor, to the point that Kesh's stubbornness was attributed to his blood.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Nakmor Drack first meets Pathfinder Ryder on Eos at a kett base, just as the Pathfinder team is surprised by Drack tossing a dead wraith through a window. Drack is wary of people from the Andromeda Initiative because of the Nexus' mistreatment of the krogan. Despite Drack's estrangement with Nexus personnel, he is still fond of Vetra and is courteous to her if she is in Ryder's party. 
Having seen what's out in Heleus, Drack warns the Initiative's inexperience is bound to get them killed. However, he declines the initial offer to join Ryder's team as he claims the day that happens is "the day the clouds part and the kett keel over." Parting ways with the Pathfinder after extracting a tooth souvenir from the wraith, Drack cautions them to keep their heads out there.

After the activation of Eos' Remnant vault and the environment has become more hospitable, the Pathfinder team finds Drack fighting kett at an outpost site earmarked for future Initiative development and helps take them out. Once the kett have been dealt with, Drack tells Ryder he's impressed at their feats (which includes parting the clouds of Eos), though he still sees them as green as a drell when it comes to Heleus affairs. Concluding that they work well together, Drack formally joins Ryder's crew. He takes up residence in the Tempest's kitchen, though he can be found in other places of the ship at times.
Talking with Drack, his animosity for the Nexus becomes clear. After Assistant Director William Spender duped the krogan into putting down the Nexus uprising, the Nexus leadership denied responsibility and refused the krogan their unauthorized compensation: to have political representation in Nexus affairs. Since the krogan exodus from the Nexus, Drack and the other krogan have started their own colony. Drack has been doing his part to secure the krogan colony by taking out kett bases. 
After learning about exaltation, Drack warns Ryder that the Archon is too dangerous to leave alive, as he's seen people like him before. The Archon thinks he knows what's best for everyone, but Drack reckons he has the means to enforce his will. The old krogan advises taking out the leadership fast and hard, even advocating for extreme measures and taking collateral casualties, to ensure the rest will follow in the Archon's wake. This isn't the time for bluster, and he wants Ryder to think of a plan for attack, because if the Archon has his way there won't be anyone left to save.
Ryder can agree with Drack's sentiments, or advocate for less brutish solutions. If Ryder's male, he recalls training colonists to repel raiders who were always encroaching on them. Drack counters the native angara already know how to fight, but the Archon has an entire army to "back up his crazy." 

During Ryder's first visit to Kadara, Drack and Vetra accompany the Pathfinder to Kadara Port, and he finds it impressive considering the exiles got kicked off the Nexus with nothing to show for it. As he and Vetra have business elsewhere, they leave Ryder alone shortly, deeming the transaction as something the Pathfinder wouldn't need to know. 
The transaction goes off without a hitch, something Drack attributes to his imposing presence. Later back on the ship, Drack calls an emergency meeting with the squad and informs them he has learned of trouble brewing at the krogan colony on Elaaden: Morda declared herself Overlord of the colony, and Drack argues they should investigate as he wouldn't waste the team's time if it wasn't important.
Sometime during mission downtime, Drack complains how the turians were essentially rewarded by the Citadel Council for destroying the krogan with the genophage while all he got was a medal. Cora Harper is surprised and inquires where he got that medal from, and he claims an old buddy of his made one from scrap and pinned it on his chest. He still has the memento in his possessions.
After being a member of the squad for a while and having his loyalty mission completed, Ryder receives an email from Kesh asking them to look out for her grandfather. The Pathfinder finds him in the medical bay with Lexi, who is explaining that a lot of his redundant organs are failing and he needs to start being more careful although he is dismissive, insisting that he is fine and that spending time talking about it will not change anything.
When Ryder asks what's wrong with him, Drack explains that his arm, side, hip and part of his leg have been replaced by prosthetics and that he has a thread balancing across his spine to reduce strain. He shares some of his history, recalling how he fought through the Krogan Rebellions only to watch his culture disintegrate before making a living as a mercenary and later a pirate but despite all of this combat experience, he was still taken out by "one idiot with a pack of frag grenades". 
Drack confesses that after the accident, his body initially continuously rejected the implants designed to keep him functional and that his prosthetics wouldn't sync properly which caused him a huge amount of pain. He fell into a depression and lost all purpose in his life, almost succumbing to it until a shaman handed him the recently-born Kesh. Telling him she was worthless and bound to die gave Drack a renewed sense of purpose, leading him to seek help which pulled him from his spiraling depression.

Loyalty[]
Drack asks Ryder to help him recover a stolen krogan transport containing the krogan seed vault. Krogan babies require the nutrients from the transport's plants in order to avoid health complications, making the transport irreplaceable. Drack and Ryder track the missing transport and fight the outlaw thieves. 
After discovering that Aroane is involved, the Pathfinder team concludes that the outlaws are conspiring with William Spender. On the way, they rescue Vorn, the krogan botanist who also happens to be integral to their agricultural development. Aroane, the leader of the outlaws, is eventually apprehended and Ryder can choose to let Drack drop him to his death or incarcerate him in order to use him against Spender.
Back at the Nexus, Drack and Ryder use their gathered evidence to bring Spender to justice. With evidence revealing Spender's schemes to dupe the Nexus, krogan, and the exiles, Foster Addison is finally convinced to make things right and advocate for the krogan in their negotiations with Director Jarun Tann. Spender is ultimately punished, either by exile or jail.

Skills[]


Powers

Blood Rage


Incinerate


Flak Cannon


Passives

Krogan Warrior


Grizzled Veteran




Note: †Rank 6 of each Skill is unavailable to Drack until his loyalty mission Nakmor Drack: A Future for our People is completed.

Armament[]
Drack is armed with a Ruzad shotgun.

Correspondence[]
After activation of the vault on Eos:




About Your Dad
To: Ryder
From: Drack

Vetra told me what happened to your dad.  I've lost a lot of people over the years.  Figured you could use some cheering up.  Or at least a distraction.

This usually helps me:

(Drack has attached 37 images of various rifles and shotguns.  Two are duplicate images. Many are low-res or watermarked.)


Drack



After first visit to Kadara Port:




Matriarch credits
To: Ryder
From: Drack

Last time I was on Kadara, I met this asari at Kralla's who said she'd let me in on a little score.

Apparently, there's this matriarch who came over on the Nexus. Only she died in stasis. My contact says she's next in line for the old lady's credits. A lot of credits. And get this: she says she'll split them with me. Trouble is, there's red tape. Transfer fees. And she's having trouble mustering up the credits to clear 'em. Asked me if I could cover the transfer cost.

I tried to bring Vetra in on this, but she says it's a scam. I'm not so sure. Seems like a pretty good opportunity to me.


Drack





RE: Matriarch credits
To: Ryder
From: Drack

It was a scam.


Do me a favor and don't tell Vetra, okay?


Trivia[]
Drack is listed as 196 cm tall and and 340 kg with prosthetics.
Drack's matriarch credits email chain is a spin on the advance-fee scam, also known as the Spanish Prisoner or Nigerian prince scam.
See also[]
Unique dialogue
References[]

↑ Nakmor Drack - Mass Effect: Andromeda

↑ Mass Effect: Andromeda - Introducing Drack Your Krogan Teammate (4K) - IGN First


Explore Mass Effect: Andromeda with a New Gameplay Reveal
Meet Your Squad Members with a New Trailer
Official Gameplay Trailer - 4K
MASS EFFECT: ANDROMEDA | Combat Profiles & Squads | Official Gameplay Series - Part 2*
https://twitter.com/CabLivingstone/status/808509341988814852




Mass Effect: Andromeda Squad




Cora Harper • Nakmor Drack • Jaal Ama DaravLiam Kosta • Pelessaria B'Sayle • Vetra Nyx




