




Drell Assassin Infiltrator






Class
Infiltrator


Race
Drell


Rarity
Rare


Availability
Mass Effect 3: Retaliation


Abilities
AcrobaticsMartial ArtsIncreased Mobility


The reptilian drell have dense muscle tissue that grants them surprising, wiry strength. With unique hyoid bones in their throats, drell can vocalize high-pitched sounds outside of human hearing range. The bones have the added benefit of making drell extremely difficult to strangle.
Though drell may lack the rugged durability of other races, they are lightning fast and deadly accurate. Drell are to be feared on the battlefield.

Contents

1 Powers
2 Melee and movement
3 Player Notes

3.1 General Notes
3.2 Cerberus
3.3 Collectors
3.4 Geth
3.5 Reapers


4 Trivia


Powers[]





Shield: 250 / Health: 500


Class: Drell Assassin


 Tactical Cloak




 Homing Grenade




 Recon Mine




 Fitness











Melee and movement[]





Regular Melee – Kick
Melee Sequence: The Drell Assassin executes a kick followed by a cartwheel attack.
Heavy Melee (Biotic Strike) – The Drell Assassin Infiltrator strikes a target with a biotically-charged fist. An unprotected foot soldier can be sent flying.
Grab (Biotic Punch) – The Drell Assassin Infiltrator drags an enemy over cover and then executes them with a charged biotic punch.





Dodge (Acrobatics) – The Drell Assassin Infiltrator flips to evade incoming attacks.
The Drell Assassin Infiltrator can take cover, and can roll from cover to cover.

Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
The Drell Assassin Infiltrator capable of dealing a huge amount of power damage in a matter of seconds. Setting a Recon Mine in a high-traffic area and detonating it right after the Homing Grenade is thrown can obliterate large crowds and deal significant damage to heavily armored foes.
None of the Drell Assassin's powers can set up Power Combos on their own, they can only detonate them. If you want to create your own combos without teammate assistance, equipping Disruptor, Incendiary, or Cryo ammunition is required.
Since firing and detonating Recon Mine does not break cloak, the Drell Assassin can cloak, fire the Recon Mine, fire his weapon (breaking cloak), and then detonate the Recon Mine. Since this triggers the shorter cloak cooldown, a relatively lightly loaded Assassin will be able to quickly re-cloak, rinse and repeat for devastating damage.
Since the Assassin lacks anti-shield powers, equipping a weapon such as the Acolyte is advised.
The Drell Assassin can potentially do more damage with Homing Grenade than any other class if all the power bonuses are picked in Tactical Cloak and in the passive powers, added to the damage bonus of Recon Mine.
It is also the most effective class with Homing Grenade generally, as it can use Tactical Cloak's invisibility as cover during the long launching animation.
Homing Grenade's travel time over long distances can mean that the Tactical Cloak damage bonus may wear off in transit if the cloak ends soon after firing the grenade. It's possible to fire a Homing Grenade while not cloaked, and cloak while the grenade is in flight to give it the damage bonus prior to detonation.
Along with the N7 Shadow Infiltrator, the Drell Assassin is the most agile Infiltrator class in multiplayer.
Cerberus[]
As a Drell's main strength is his speed, you are less likely to be impaled by a Phantom's instant-kill move but caution should still be exercised.
Recon Mine can be used to deal massive damage to an Atlas. Their slow speed makes it easy to catch one in the explosion radius. Care should still be taken to avoid their close range grab.
Additionally, Recon Mine, when evolved to Rank 6 Invasive Scan, can also be used to bring the already slow Atlas to a snails pace, making it much easier to kill.
Homing Grenade can be very effective against Guardians as it usually drops down and bypasses their shields entirely.
If that fails Tactical Cloak can be used to move behind the Guardian and shoot him.
Collectors[]
Collectors are specialists in both close and ranged combat, so care should be taken all the time. It's advised to be even more defensive with the Assassin when fighting the Collectors, as the Drell's low shields and health can put the player at risk easily.
Recon Mine evolved to Rank 6 Invasive Scan can slow down dangerous enemies such as Swarms, Possessed Abominations and especially Praetorians.
Geth[]
The Geth are hard hitting specialists and can very easily strip the Assassin's already low health and shields with flanking approaches. They can also stun in succession, limiting the movement and actions of the player.
A cautious approach is recommended against the Geth due the Assassin's low health and shields; take cover and stick by your teammates to give you more survivability.
Recon Mine can be used to reveal cloaked Geth Hunters sneaking up on you and your squad, which is vital on Gold and Platinum.
Reapers[]
This is where the Assassin will shine due to the number of armored enemies that can be easily dispatched with the right upgrades in Recon Mine and Homing Grenade.
Only Banshees and Marauders have additional layers of protection, but it may still be wise to bring a back-up weapon (like a light SMG or Acolyte) to deal with shields.
Avoid Ravagers at all costs for if all three shots land you will either be downed or critically injured. Swarmers can also deal a lot of damage to your low shields and health.
Try to avoid the acid puddles left by Ravagers as they can do serious damage to a low fitness Drell.
Trivia[]
Although the Drell Assassin possesses a barrier according to the description on the Characters screen, in actuality the character is equipped with shields.


Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer and Character Customization


Adepts

Asari • Asari Justicar • Awakened Collector • Batarian Slasher • Drell • Human • Krogan Shaman • N7 Fury • Project Phoenix • Volus


Engineers

Geth • Human • N7 Demolisher • Quarian • Quarian Male • Salarian • Talon Mercenary • Turian Saboteur • Volus • Vorcha Hunter


Infiltrators

Alliance Infiltration Unit • Asari Huntress • Drell Assassin • Geth Hunter • Human • N7 Shadow • Quarian • Quarian Male • Salarian • Turian Ghost


Sentinels

Asari Valkyrie • Batarian Enforcer • Human • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • N7 Paladin • Turian • Volus Mercenary • Vorcha


Soldiers

Batarian Enforcer • Battlefield 3 • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Trooper • Human • Krogan • N7 Destroyer • Quarian Marksman • Turian • Turian Havoc • Vorcha


Vanguards

Asari • Batarian Brawler • Cabal • Drell • Human • Krogan Battlemaster • N7 Slayer • Project Phoenix • Volus Protector




