









Eclipse Commando




Race
Asari


Type
Organic, Biotic


Faction
Eclipse


Armament
M-300 Claymore


Abilities
 Warp Barrier Morale Boost


Health
Moderate


Armor
High


Barrier
High


Locations
Illium


Eclipse Commandos are the elite soldiers of the mercenary organization, Eclipse. They are asari commandos who are carrying out mercenary work. Their training, skill experience and biotic abilities make them some of the finest individual warriors in the galaxy and among the toughest organic enemies faced in the game. They also improve the combat abilities of those around them in a similar fashion to Geth Primes and can actually be heard directing those under their command. It's also notable that leaders such as Enyala and Wasea are asari commandos.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Commandos are equipped with the M-300 Claymore heavy shotgun. This means that there is a noticeable delay between shots (when the Commando must eject the heat sink after every shot). However, this also means that the Commando is even more dangerous up close and will more than likely rush you while you deal with back-up.  They will also regularly use Warp.
Defensive
Eclipse Commandos are equipped with barriers, armour, and health; all of which are of a high level. Commandos on any difficulty can be a challenge. Their main strength is their durability, as they have three strong protection levels and can recharge their barriers making them even more deadly.

Tactics[]
If an Eclipse Commando is encountered, it is advisable for the entire squad to target them. They can easily cause significant damage to an individual squad member, and can be very hard to respond to if they use their biotic abilities regularly. Warp, Warp Ammo, and Armor Piercing Ammo are good, and Incinerate is best against their armor and making them panic, buying you valuable time. Once their protection fails, it is best to hit them with Pull or Throw and finish them off before they have a chance to recover their barriers. Another tactic is to isolate the Commando by eliminating its back-up, then timing your shots and powers during their reloading, though this is only advisable when there is no danger of being flanked or overwhelmed.
Above all else, do everything in your power to keep a Commando away from you. Once in close, they can hit you with their shotgun, occupying you so that their squad can maneuver into cover. Reave is excellent against a Commando since it not only does significant damage to their barrier and armor, it can stun unprotected Commandos, allowing you to quickly dispatch them with limited reprisal.
Commandos often cry out right before using Warp. If a Commando is not in your immediate line of sight and you hear a call - "Weakening their integrity," "Deploying Warp field," or "Mind over matter" - this means you have less than two seconds before she will release her attack.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




