









Eclipse Security Guard




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Faction
Eclipse


Armament
M-3 Predator


Abilities
None


Health
Low


Shields
Low


Locations
Bekenstein


The Eclipse Security Guards are Eclipse mercenaries that make an appearance in Kasumi: Stealing Memory, where they serve as bodyguards for Donovan Hock.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




When attempting to crack Hock's vault with Kasumi, Shepard had to acquire the password to the vault and a sample of Hock's DNA. Getting the password involved infiltrating the communication room, shooting it out with two guards that were stationed there. In order to get the DNA sample, the Commander had to gain entry to Hock's private rooms. If the Commander elected to sneak in through the back of the apartment, Shepard encountered three guards investigating the window that Shepard broke in order to gain entry. Aiming to not get caught, the Commander took out the security guards and continued the mission.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
The Eclipse Security Guards are only equipped with M-3 Predator pistols.
Defensive
The Security Guards have low health, and low shields on higher difficulties.

Tactics[]
Eclipse Security Guards have no armor and wield pistols, so they are easy targets.

Trivia[]
The Eclipse Security Guards, as well as the Eclipse Troopers hired to guard Hock's home, are the only Eclipse mercenaries with the unique black and white armor scheme.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




