


Drack is concerned about tensions at the krogan colony on Elaaden. He's forwarded you an email from Jorgal Strux, a well respected krogan from an old family. Strux has asked to meet you at a trading post called Paradise. He's also asked that you keep it a secret.
Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Hunting the Archon

Upon returning to the Tempest from the first visit to Kadara Port, a meeting called by Drack starts automatically. When the meeting is over this mission is automatically acquired. An email is also sent by Drack.




This sounds bad, kid
To: Ryder
From: Drack

Thought I'd show you what Strux sent me. A transcript of an audio log that's got me worried about the colony. Sounds like Morda's cooking up something. Don't know what to think:

Morda: Stop arguing with me, Brenk! It's payback time for the Initiative.
Brenk: They don't care about us.
Morda: But they will. Soon they're gonna know that I'm Overlord. And once I execute my plan, there'll be no denying that the krogan rule Heleus. Then they'll come begging to us.
Brenk: Okay, Morda. I'll get a team together. Gather everything we need.

Morda: No krogan bows down to the Nexus again.


Walkthrough[]
This mission is technically a Priority Op in that it kickstarts a chain of Heleus Assignments that may result in improving the world's viability, which is one of the requirements in the final Priority Op. However, this mission chain is independent of the main storyline, meaning it can also be done after the main threats have been dealt with, though potentially at the expense of some character interactions.

Travel to Elaaden in the Zaubray system to meet with the krogan contact[]
As stated, proceed to Zaubray. When you're in orbit above Elaaden choose a squad using the Loadout screen and move out. A cutscene then starts with Pathfinder Ryder summoning Drack to the bridge while Kallo Jath begins the landing procedures. You'll learn a few things about the area ahead, including the prominent half-buried Remnant starship.
Later, Drack disembarks from the Tempest at the same time as Ryder (even if Drack isn't chosen for the squad). If he isn't with the squad he will go ahead to the New Tuchanka colony to smooth things over and will be waiting at the New Tuchanka gate on your first approach to the colony. If he's with the squad, though, he answers Ryder's query about what sort of people live on the world.
This mission completes automatically after the first landing on Elaaden, with no rewards of any kind given. The follow-up mission Conflict in the Colony then starts afterward. 


Elaaden Navigation




Mission Index

Next Mission →




Missions (Mass Effect: Andromeda)

Conflict in the Colony




