






This article is about the adversary featured in the first Mass Effect game. For the security company, see Elanus Risk Control Services. For the turian arms manufacturer, see Haliat Armory.








Elanos Haliat




Race
Turian


Type
Organic


Armament
Assault Rifle, Shotgun


Abilities
 Immunity


Health
Moderate


Shields
Low


Locations
Agebinium


Elanos Haliat is a pirate and prominent figure in the Terminus Systems. 

Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect
3 Tactics
4 Trivia







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Background[]
Haliat was once the most powerful leader of the Terminus pirate bands, and planned a huge assault on the Alliance to increase his prestige. With the support of batarian funding, Haliat rallied the inhabitants of the Terminus Systems and attacked Elysium, an assault later known as the Skyllian Blitz.
Haliat's plans came to nothing as the Alliance repelled the Blitz and decimated the pirate ships from orbit. The Terminus pirates blamed Haliat for the Blitz's failure, and he lost his position as their leader. He retreated to a remote world in disgrace.
Haliat saw a chance to regain his prestige when he found an Alliance espionage probe left over from the First Contact War. These probes carried heavy nuclear payloads; he knew the Alliance would send someone to recover it, so he used the probe as bait. Haliat activated the probe's homing beacon and hid it in a mine on Agebinium.

Mass Effect[]

Just as Haliat had hoped, the Alliance sends Commander Shepard to retrieve the probe. Wanting the prestige of killing the first human Spectre, he waits until Shepard is inside the mine, then detonates a seismic charge to trap Shepard's team inside. Haliat then appears over a hologram to taunt Shepard—or to blame Shepard for his disgrace if the Commander is a War Hero—and activates the probe's nuclear payload with a ten-second countdown. 
Haliat steals Shepard's Mako and brings it to his camp, only to be surprised by Shepard's team, who had deactivated the nuke and escaped the mine. Haliat and his followers attempt to kill them, though all of the pirates die in the ensuing firefight.


Tactics[]
Elanos Haliat has three bars of shielding; like with all Mass Effect enemies, they can regenerate over time. His health will regenerate as well and he can use Immunity to drastically reduce damage taken. He can take cover and flank you, although he and his pirates never leave the confines of the camp.
He is armed with an assault rifle and a shotgun, and can switch between those depending on the range of engagement. He can also switch from current weapon if he is affected by Sabotage, not leaving him defenceless like geth troops.
Because there are a lot of Pirates and Pirate Snipers with him, it is advised to get into the nearby Mako and accept the reduced experience gain. If your character is trained in sniper rifles, you can just stay at your position and take them out one by one.
Trivia[]

Though intended to be a turian character from the outset, Elanos Haliat was given a human model in the original game. His turian identity is hinted at by his name, the distinctive sound processing applied to his dialogue, and his referring to humanity as "Shepard's kind". This is addressed in Mass Effect Legendary Edition, where he is given a turian character model.
Haliat noticeably doesn't wear a helmet despite being outdoors on a planet with an atmosphere composed of carbon dioxide and krypton and a surface temperature of −72 °C (−97.6 °F).
Haliat states that he assembled the fleet that launched the Skyllian Blitz three years previously, when in fact the Blitz occurred seven years prior to the game.
Elanos Haliat is voiced by Gary Anthony Williams.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





