


Electrical Hammer is a tech power in Mass Effect 3's multiplayer mode.

Power Ranks[]
Rank 1: Electrical Hammer[]
Charge your hammer with electric energy, making all hammer impacts do electrical damage in a large area while stunning enemies. Your melee attacks will expend these charges.
Highly effective against shields and barriers.

Recharge Speed: 18 sec
Damage Bonus: 250
Impact Radius: 4 m
Number of Charges: 2


Rank 2: Recharge Speed[]
Increase recharge speed by 25%.

Recharge Speed: 14.40 sec
Damage Bonus: 250
Impact Radius: 4 m
Number of Charges: 2


Rank 3: Radius[]
Increase damage radius by 20%.

Recharge Speed: 14.40 sec
Damage Bonus: 250
Impact Radius: 4.80 m
Number of Charges: 2


Rank 4: Shields & Barrier/Radius[]



Shields & Barrier
Increase damage done to shields/barrier by 75%.



Radius
Increase impact radius by 40%.

Recharge Speed: 14.40 sec
Damage Bonus: 250
Impact Radius: 6.40 m
Number of Charges: 2



Rank 5: Fire Damage/Chill[]



Fire Damage
Add a fire effect to impacted targets to do 250 damage over 5 seconds.



Chill
Add a chill effect to impacted targets that decreases movement speed by 30% and increases all damage by 20%.This effect lasts 5 seconds.




Rank 6: Radius & Combo/Number of Charges[]



Radius & Combo
Increase impact radius by 30%.Increase the damage of tech combo detonations by 65%.

Recharge Speed: 14.40 sec
Damage Bonus: 250
Impact Radius: 6 m (Shields & Barrier), 7.60 m (Radius)
Number of Charges: 2


Number of Charges
Increase the number of charges generated by Electric Hammer by 2.

Recharge Speed: 14.40 sec
Damage Bonus: 250
Impact Radius: 4.80 m (Shields & Barrier), 6.40 m (Radius)
Number of Charges: 4



Player Notes[]
Electrical Hammer deals 2x damage to enemy shields and barriers.
The Fire Damage evolution enables Electrical Hammer to prime Fire Explosions.
The Chill evolution does not freeze targets, unprotected or otherwise. However, the primary target of either of the Krogan Warlord's hammer powers will usually be knocked off its feet if it is an unprotected foot soldier.
The rank 6 Radius & Combo evolution enhances the damage of non-biotic Power Combos detonated by Electrical Hammer. It does not enhance the damage of any Fire Explosions primed by the rank 5 Fire Damage evolution.[1]
Having radius evolutions will allow a large number of enemies within a large distance to be hit (up to 4 maximum). This will soften the targets up a little bit, and allow for an easier time for the Krogan Warlord to melee enemies in rapid succession. It will also allow Tech Bursts to be much more effective when the Rank 6 Radius & Combo evolution is taken.
Because of the target limit for Electrical Hammer, fighting too many enemies at once can make it less likely to detonate a single enemy primed for a combo. This can be especially troublesome when dealing with large numbers of Swarmers.
While it is possible for the Krogan Warlord to create his own combos using the Fire Damage evolution of Electrical Hammer to prime a Fire Explosion followed up by a Biotic Hammer to detonate it, the most common way to self-create combos is with Incendiary, Disruptor, or Cryo Rounds. Only Disruptor Rounds can prime Tech Bursts for extra damage from the Radius & Combo evolution. Consider using a weapon that primes single targets rapidly, or that can prime multiple targets effectively, such as the M-37 Falcon.
Chill damage is a very effective way to make tougher enemies more vulnerable to your attacks, as well as aid your team in killing anybody exposed to your chilling hammer. It increases damage from all sources, including from Power Combos and melee attacks.
With Fire Damage, one can disrupt the Tactical Cloak of Hunters and Phantoms for a few seconds, giving the team precious seconds to target and kill said foes.
Availability[]
Single-player: N/A
Multiplayer: Krogan Warlord Sentinel
Bugs[]
With the Fire Damage evolution, Electrical Hammer has a buggy interaction with Incendiary Ammo (which itself has a buggy interaction with itself); both erroneously use the same damage effect, and once Incendiary Ammo is applied on an enemy under the effect of Electrical Hammer, both damage-over-time effects get combined into an overly-damaging 3 second damage-over-time that is still technically considered by the game as "Electrical Hammer", making the ammo use Electrical Hammer's damage modifiers, which will let Incendiary Ammo do damage to shields and barriers.[2] In addition, the buggy damage-stacking of Incendiary Ammo will still work, multiplying the effect.
References[]

↑ Talk page

↑ Extensive testing along with a youtube clip and official developer confirmation of all these mechanics: https://web.archive.org/web/20160115021252/forum.bioware.com/topic/396536-incendiary-ammo-confirmed-bug-mechanics-corrections/




Mass Effect 3 Powers


Ammo

Armor-Piercing Ammo • Cryo Ammo • Disruptor Ammo • Incendiary Ammo • Warp Ammo


Biotic

Annihilation Field • Barrier • Biotic Focus • Biotic Hammer • Biotic Orbs • Biotic Protector • Biotic Slash • Biotic Sphere • Charge • Cluster Grenade • Dark Channel • Dark Sphere • Dominate • Flare • Lash • Lift Grenade • Nova • Poison Strike • Pull • Reave • Seeker Swarm • Shockwave • Singularity • Slam • Smash • Stasis • Throw • Warp • Warp Ammo


Combat

Adrenaline Rush • Arc Grenade • Ballistic Blades • Blade Armor • Bloodlust • Cain Trip Mine • Carnage • Concussive Shot • Devastator Mode • Fortification • Frag Grenade • Hawk Missile Launcher • Inferno Grenade • Marksman • Multi-Frag Grenade • Nightshade Blades • Phase Disruptor • Proximity Mine • Recon Mine • Repair Matrix • Sticky Grenade • Stimulant Pack


Tech

Armor-Piercing Arrows • Combat Drone • Concussive Arrows • Cryo Blast • Decoy • Defense Drone • Defense Matrix • Electric Slash • Electrical Hammer • Energy Drain • Flamer • Geth Turret • Havoc Strike • Hex Shield • Homing Grenade • Hunter Mode • Incinerate • Overload • Sabotage • Sentry Turret • Shadow Strike • Shield Boost • Siege Pulse • Snap Freeze • Submission Net • Supply Pylon • Tactical Cloak • Tactical Scan • Tech Armor


Fitness

Fitness (Adept) • Fitness (Engineer) • Fitness (Infiltrator) • Fitness (Sentinel) • Fitness (Soldier) • Fitness (Vanguard)


Fitness (multiplayer)

Advanced Hardware • Ancient Warrior • Fitness Module • Hardened Platform • Omni-Bow Mastery • Rage • Shield Mastery • Sword Mastery • T5-V Internal Systems • Venom Gauntlets • Warlord Rage


Player Class

Assault Mastery • Biotic Mastery • Combat Mastery • Offensive Mastery • Operational Mastery • Tech Mastery


Player Class (multiplayer)

Alliance Training • Armiger Legion • Asari Huntress • Asari Justicar • Asari Valkyrie • Batarian Enforcer • Drell Assassin • Elite Mercenary • Geth Juggernaut • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Krogan Warlord • N7 Demolisher • N7 Fury • N7 Paladin • N7 Shadow • N7 Slayer • Networked AI • Phoenix Training • Quarian Defender • Salarian Operative • T5-V Battlesuit • Turian Veteran • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient • Volus Training • Vorcha Resilience


Squadmate Class

Alliance Admiral • Alliance Officer • Arms Master • Asari Justicar • Biotic Boss • Cerberus Officer • Cerberus Operative • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Master Thief • Mercenary Veteran • Pure Biotic • Quarian Machinist • Subject Zero • Turian Huntress • Turian Rebel • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient




