


"Elite Destroyer" redirects here. For other uses, see Destroyer (disambiguation).


Progenitor

 







Faction
Remnant


Weapons / Attacks
Central CannonEnergy Dome DischargeEnergy Turrets


Abilities
Deploy ObserverPost-Mortem Explosion


Armor
Extremely High


Shields
Extremely High


Weak Points
Turrets, center opening.


The Progenitor is a rare Destroyer variant that only appears in extremely dangerous scenarios. They are usually encountered on Firebases across the Heleus Cluster as a "boss" target. There's also one guarding the Remnant fuel facility at H-047c, directly standing in Pathfinder Ryder's way to turn the blasted world into a helium-3 production hub.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
The Progenitor's turrets are different from a regular Destroyer's. Instead of twin rapid-fire cannons the Progenitor shoots energy projectiles at a slower although no less damaging pace. 
It can also spawn up to 3 Observers to harass its target. If one gets taken down, the Progenitor replaces it.
Its other armaments are the same: a startlingly powerful main gun, and an energy field activated at melee range which can swiftly strip one's shields if caught within. This energy field takes a moment to build up before detonating.

Defensive
The Progenitor possesses very strong shields and armor.
Its two turrets have their own strong shields and armor. Each time a turret gets destroyed, the Progenitor gains a substantial movement speed increase.

Tactics[]
Most tactics for beating Destroyers also apply to Progenitors. However, a key difference in approach is the Progenitor's ability to spawn Observers indefinitely. It is more advisable to focus fire on the monstrosity itself rather than the floaters.
The Progenitor's extreme toughness means it requires more than one Cobra RPG to bring down even on Bronze difficulty.
Progenitors in multiplayer tend to stay put in one place, rarely seeking out players and firing its guns at nowhere in particular unless approached. This often leaves them one of the last stragglers in a wave, leaving the team ample time to deal with more immediate threats.
Trivia[]
Prior to Patch 1.09 the single-player Progenitor was labeled Elite Destroyer.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




