






This article is about the class in Mass Effect, Mass Effect 2, Mass Effect 3, and Mass Effect: Andromeda. For other uses, see Engineer (disambiguation).

Contents

1 Mass Effect

1.1 Talents
1.2 Class Talent


2 Mass Effect 2

2.1 Weapons Training
2.2 Powers


3 Mass Effect 3

3.1 Powers
3.2 Weight Capacity
3.3 Other characteristics


4 Mass Effect: Andromeda
5 See Also


Mass Effect[]
The Engineer is a tech specialist, able to quickly and easily manipulate the environment with specific talents, and repair or modify technical equipment. Gameplay focus is on shaping the battlefield during combat, healing the party, and debuffing enemies (disabling weapons and lowering shields). Even though they begin the game with only pistol training and an omni-tool, Engineers can unlock the ability to hack enemy technology.
Engineers possess all tech abilities, but can only equip light armor and may gain specialist training with pistols as well. They possess no biotic skills. Tech skills focus on crippling and damaging the enemy; tech proximity mine damage is, admittedly, often viewed as a secondary effect, but should not be discounted. Engineers also possess the First Aid and Medicine talents, making their healing very effective.
The Engineer class talent reduces recharge time for tech talents and increases tech protection.

Talents[]
See also: Talents#Class Specific





Class: Engineer


 Pistols




 Basic Armor

Unlocked at Pistols 6


 Decryption




 Hacking

Unlocked at Decryption 7


 Electronics




 Damping

Unlocked at Electronics 4


 First Aid




 Medicine

Unlocked at First Aid 5








Class Talent[]
The Engineer class talent reduces the recharge time of tech powers and increases tech protection. An Engineer can specialize into Medic or Operative giving them access to levels 7 - 12.
Each point spent in the Engineer talent gives abilities as listed below:

Reduces recharge time of Sabotage, Overload, Damping, AI Hacking, Neural Shock, and First Aid by 4%. Increases tech protection by 6%.
Reduces recharge time on all tech talents by 6%. Increases tech protection by 9%.
Reduces recharge time on all tech talents by 8%. Increases tech protection by 12%.
Reduces recharge time on all tech talents by 10%. Increases tech protection by 15%.
Reduces recharge time on all tech talents by 12%. Increases tech protection by 18%.
Reduces recharge time on all tech talents by 14%. Increases tech protection by 21%.
Mass Effect 2[]

Engineers are tech specialists, the only class able to employ combat drones on the battlefield. Engineers are the most effective class at blasting through enemy defenses and disabling opponents. Engineers can spawn combat drones to harass enemies or force them out of entrenched cover positions.

Weapons Training[]
Heavy Pistols
Submachine Guns
Heavy Weapons
Powers[]





Class: Engineer


 Overload




 Incinerate

Unlocked at Overload 2


 Combat Drone




 Cryo Blast

Unlocked at Combat Drone 2


 AI Hacking

Unlocked at Cryo Blast 2


 Tech Mastery










Mass Effect 3[]
Engineers are tech specialists, the most effective class at disabling the defense of the toughest enemies or incapacitating them to render them harmless. In combination with their weapons training, Engineers have the unique ability to spawn combat drones that can harass enemies or force them out of entrenched cover positions.

Powers[]





Class: Engineer


 Incinerate




 Overload

Unlocked at Level 3


 Cryo Blast

Unlocked at Level 6


 Combat Drone




 Sabotage

Unlocked at Level 3


 Sentry Turret

Unlocked at Level 6


 Tech Mastery




 Fitness

Unlocked at Level 3








Weight Capacity[]
See also: Weight Capacity
The Engineer has a weight capacity bonus of 10 at Level 1 of Tech Mastery, increasing to 30 at Level 2. A maximum capacity bonus of 50 is achievable by choosing the 'Weight Capacity' upgrade at Level 5 of Tech Mastery. This puts the Engineer in league with the Adept, with the lowest potential weight capacity compared to other classes.

Other characteristics[]
During helping Aria T'Loak retake Omega, a special Paragon Interrupt is available only when Shepard is Engineer, which enables Shepard to reroute the Omega reactor power away from the force field, making both Aria and Nyreen satisfied.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]

Main article: Profiles
Mass Effect: Andromeda no longer uses the class system of a locked in character "class" chosen at the beginning of gameplay but uses flexible Profiles instead. 
Pathfinder Ryder has the ability to change profiles at anytime (including during combat). This allows a vastly larger amount of customization than seen in prior Mass Effect games.
The Engineer profile is one of seven profiles available to Ryder.
Engineers are experts in both offensive and defensive tech powers.
This profile reconfigures Ryder's implant, enabling him/her to maintain constant control over a small combat drone which assists and protects him/her in battle.
Bonus power - COMBAT DRONE: A small drone improves recharge rate for tech abilities and self-destruct with an EMP pulse if enemies get close. The improved recharge rate is lost after destruction.

See Also[]
Medic
Operative
Engineer Guide
Engineer Guide (Mass Effect 2)
Engineer Guide (Mass Effect 3)




Classes




Soldier • Engineer • Adept • Infiltrator • Vanguard • Sentinel



Mass Effect Talents


Biotic

Barrier • Lift • Singularity • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Assault Rifles • Pistols • Shotguns • Sniper Rifles • Assault Training • Fitness • Basic Armor • Combat Armor • Tactical Armor


Tech

Damping • Decryption • Electronics • First Aid • Hacking • Medicine


Class

Adept • Asari Scientist • Engineer • Infiltrator • Krogan Battlemaster • Quarian Machinist • Sentinel • Soldier • Turian Agent • Vanguard


Player only

Charm • Intimidate • Spectre Training




