









Enroh Bosaan
Gubernatorial Aide

Race
Angara


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Enroh Bosaan is an assistant to Aya governor Paaran Shie.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




During Pathfinder Ryder's guarded walk with Paaran through his city, Enroh is in the crowd responding to a concerned citizen to let the governor handle the situation, as the latter wanted the human in a containment cell.
After Ryder's meeting with Resistance leader Evfra de Tershaav, Enroh walks with Jaal Ama Darav to the Tempest's landing pad as the latter has volunteered to assess the human's intentions. Enroh bids him to be careful and not kill himself attempting to save Moshae Sjefa.
Since Ryder is barred from the city until further notice, the aide initially hangs around the docks ready to answer queries the Pathfinder may have. If asked how he and Jaal know each other, Enroh notes their families are related. Ryder observes they don't sound alike, so Enroh justifies it as a  cultural thing.
As a mere aide, it is not up to Enroh to decide when Ryder can revisit the city; it's up to the governor once the human has earned Evfra's trust. Museum curator Avela Kjar and merchant Sohkaa Esof both have tasks for the Pathfinder that may aid in that goal, and Enroh notifies Ryder about them if they haven't been approached yet.
If asked about other angaran worlds, Enroh describes life on them as hard. They can't bring everyone to Aya since their world cannot support them all.
During the Moshae's return to Aya following her successful rescue, Enroh trails behind Paaran and Evfra and silently watches the proceedings. Once Ryder is cleared to enter the city at will, Enroh resumes his duties at the Governor's Office. He has established terminals throughout the city that allows citizens to record messages for the Andromeda Initiative. He needs Ryder's assistance with transporting these messages to the Nexus leaders.
After the conquest of Meridian, Enroh's compatriot Arbiter Ohmdaal welcomes the possibility of less aliens on Aya. Enroh isn't enthused, since he finds life is never dull when they're around. He admits he'll miss them should the aliens go away.




