


It's been some time since the battle against the Archon, and Meridian is beginning to function as a hub for humanity. Everyone is building on the foundation you gave them.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Talk with your squad and crew
2.2 Return to the Tempest to continue exploring


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards
5 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Meridian: The Way Home

This mission is automatically acquired following the closing credits. 

Walkthrough[]
When the game resumes after the credits a cutscene with dialogue will play of Pathfinder Ryder getting up from Alec Ryder's computer, and talking with their twin, who's been resting for a while. Your twin has been in a coma for weeks again, and asks what has happened in the meantime: how are the Hyperion sleepers, and how's your own connection to SAM. Respond how you like, as you have to deal with the Nexus leaders outside the room, and your twin goes back to sleep again.
Note:  This mission is the final time your twin is seen or referenced. When you leave and then return to Meridian later, Ryder's quarters will be empty with no sign of the sibling anywhere. If Ryder Family Secrets was not completed prior to the endgame, the story thread involving Ryder's family (particularly their mother) remains incomplete.

Talk with your squad and crew[]
Two tasks need to be completed as soon as you step out of your room on the grounded ark - now known as Port Meridian - for the next objective to be added: choosing the Nexus ambassador and speaking with ten marked  squadmates/crewmates.

Choosing An Ambassador

Jarun Tann, Nakmor Kesh, Foster Addison, and Tiran Kandros want to talk to you once you open the door, they all journeyed to Port Meridian from the Nexus to see Meridian for themselves. Ryder will start by interrupting Addison telling off Tann, and then Tann claims you're late. Whatever your response to this, Ryder will be told they have to nominate someone as an ambassador to the Nexus. 
At this point, you can argue that this shouldn't be Pathfinder's choice, but they'll force you to choose anyway, since you are the only one who acted for everyone, Initiative or not. The four politicians can't make the choice using a people's vote, as they cannot impose a vote on the angara, Kadara, or Elaaden. Tann then suggests the salarian Pathfinder, and you will then have to choose between four options:

Moshae Sjefa, the influential angaran leader - Gives the angara a voice, but Kandros argues they have enough of a voice, and Tann recommends that it needs to be more Initiative-focused.
August Bradley, the human mayor of Prodromos outpost on Eos - A good leader and representation of the outposts, but Kesh reasons his leadership experience is on a very small scale. Kandros will approve of how well he protects the outpost (relative to being a military or scientific outpost), despite opposition.
Nakmor Morda, the krogan leader of New Tuchanka - Gives the krogan a voice. Kesh laughs at this while Tann despises the choice and Addison will say it's rather unorthodox. Note: This option is not available if you haven't created an outpost on Elaaden.
Zevin Raeka/Lumont Hayjer, the salarian Pathfinder that represents the future - Good representation of the Initiative's goals, but Addison will comment on how it's not the most inspirational choice, and Kesh just notes how bad the choice is.

Choosing involves selecting your candidate twice. The first time, the Nexus leaders will give their pros and cons as per above. Selecting another candidate also makes the leaders give their opinions. The second time confirms your choice. Whatever the choice, the politicians will make their comments, then move on. Whoever you choose will later be found visiting Port Meridian the next time you're here and will comment upon being chosen.

Speak To People

You can now talk to all ten of the specified squad and crew members, in any order. There are also terminals, a few extra people, and other information to glean from the area as well. You can return later on to interact with these items and some of the people. SAM Node is presently off-limits due to integration of Hyperion systems, but will be open again on future return trips.
The ten specific people you will have to talk to are your entire Tempest crew: Gil Brodie, Dr. Lexi T'Perro, Dr. Suvi Anwar, Pelessaria B'Sayle, Kallo Jath, Nakmor Drack, Vetra Nyx, Liam Kosta, Jaal Ama Darav and Cora Harper. If you're in a romance with any of these people, there may be additional dialogue related to that.


Other people you can directly talk to are completely optional. Some of them are permanent Port Meridian mainstays, like Specialist Rynn Gee and the trio of Iora Pillay, Hunter Kerry, and Darla vas Hyperion, and you can pester them on later visits. The rest are only present during this mission, and most are dependent on them surviving something that could have killed them early on: Sloane Kelly, Nozomi Dunn, Zevin Raeka / Lumont Hayjer, Moshae Sjefa (one of the latter two may be present on return trips if selected as ambassador). 
Birtak, one of Drack's missing scouts, makes an appearance here even if you saved Raeka at the expense of the other scouts in Hunting the Archon. You can also join in on the dance floor next to Peebee if you feel up to it, though she makes no comment about it.
Next to the exit to the Tempest, you can speak to Specialist Rynn Gee, who'll let Ryder listen to a coded call from the quarian ark Keelah Si'yah, and for some unexplained reason the message is to stay away from where they are.
When you've spoken to the tenth mandatory person, the next objective will be added. You can keep exploring this small section of Meridian, or proceed to the eastern side of the main room to board the Tempest and leave Meridian.

Return to the Tempest to continue exploring[]

When you attempt to leave, Ryder will notice the squadmates conversing together, and the salarian Pathfinder (accompanied by the asari and/or turian Pathfinders if their respective stories have been resolved) holds you up to chat for a bit. Raeka/Hayjer wants to honor what you did, but there is no protocol for it. They instead declare you've defined the Pathfinder role that was invented by Alec. The squadmates converge there, a quick pan of their approving faces ensues, so respond how you will to that.
A short scene on the Tempest bridge follows, where your entire crew (minus Lexi) see the ship off to leave Meridian for other adventures. The mission then completes.

Aftermath[]
Once back aboard the Tempest, you can continue exploring Heleus, including the Saajor system that Meridian is in and complete any side missions outstanding save for those locked out by the events of the endgame.
If you've raised all five outpost worlds to 100% viability, one final post-game Priority Ops mission, The World is Waiting, will automatically trigger upon returning to the Tempest; if not, it will be triggered once this condition occurs.
In addition, two optional side-missions are also unlocked, both involving returning to the Nexus: the final step of Task: Path of a Hero, and Nakmor Drack: Clutch Moment, depending upon choices made during the earlier mission Hunting the Archon.
Future visits to Port Meridian will have the squadmates among the Tempest crew loitering in the area.

Rewards[]
+1330 XP
+73 AVP 
Heleus Armor Helmet Blueprint - Rank depending on Ryder's level.
Biotic Amplifier Melee Weapon - Rank depending on Ryder's level.
Trivia[]
After the credits, you can access a terminal in their quarters with a large number of email messages from Initiative citizens, presumably those who had awoken from stasis pods. A number of them include in-joke references to Bioware's Dragon Age franchise.
An e-mail titled "A great story, Pathfinder" is sent by V. Tethras, saying that he is going to write a story about Pathfinder's journey. It is presumably taken from Varric Tethras, a playable character and storyteller from Dragon Age.
An e-mail titled "Winners get razzberries!" is sent by R. Jenny + Widdle, the nicknames of Sera and Dagna from Dragon Age: Inquisition.
C. Hawke (whose name is the same as that of the brother of Dragon Age 2's main character) send a thank you e-mail, saying that he could have helped if he had SAM.
Alora, named after Dragon Age's Dalish elf, sends a thank you message titled "me too".
D. Sutherland (another name from Dragon Age: Inquisition) sends a thank you message titled "I'll make it matter."
Anders (named for a Grey Warden in Dragon Age) sends a greeting mail, "Happy Landing Day!" and invites the Pathfinder to blow up the roof off the place. This refers to a story line of Dragon Age 2 involving Anders in which he blows up a Chantry building.
Other Dragon Age character names referenced in the Pathfinder's inbox include Aveline (written as A. Hendyr, referring to the fact the character married fellow guard Donnic Hendyr) and Captain Isabela (written as Captain I., with her message stating that she'd allow Pathfinder to drive her boat anytime).
A joke outside of Dragon Age is that one email says that anyone complaining to the Pathfinder should come to her and is signed Helen Wate, that is, come to hell and wait.

Priority Ops Navigation


← Previous Mission

Mission Index

Next Mission →


Meridian: The Way Home

Missions (Mass Effect: Andromeda)

The World is Waiting




