


The Equalizer Pack is a DLC pack for Mass Effect 2 that adds new helmets and an armor set. The Equalizer Pack was released on May 4, 2010.[1]

Contents

1 Description
2 Content
3 Emails
4 Pricing
5 Trivia
6 References


Description[]
Cerberus doesn't just need a hero - they need a one-man army. That's why the Equalizer Pack adds the Capacitor Helmet, Archon Visor, and Inferno Armor to Shepard's armor locker. The Capacitor Helmet stores power for kinetic barriers, allowing Shepard's shields to recharge faster. The Archon Visor manages omni-tools and biotic amps, reducing the recharge time of Shepard's powers. The powered Inferno Armor speeds up Shepard's movements and increases his tech and biotic power damage, additionally stress analysis software even gives him an edge in negotiations outside of combat. The Equalizer -- when the armor goes on, the gloves come off.

Content[]
Two armor helmets:
Archon Visor
Capacitor Helmet
One armor set:
Inferno Armor
Emails[]



Archon Visor
Shepard,
Our technicians just made a hand-off to your crew; a visor and bit of software called the "Archon System." It manages processing power for biotic amplifiers and omni-tools - or, more correctly, allows you to do the managing. It's now in your armor locker.









Capacitor Helmet
Shepard,
By the time you read this, our technicians will have delivered a capacitor helmet to your armor locker. It will step up your shield recharging technology. Use it in good health.









Inferno Armor
Shepard,
Miranda recommended we send you our Inferno armor. It's been well received by our squad leaders in the Verge, and so I'm passing a suit along to you. It should be aboard the Normandy by now - check your quarters when you've got a free moment.




Pricing[]
The Equalizer Pack is available for 160 Microsoft Points on Xbox 360, 160 BioWare Points on PC, and $1.99 USD on PlayStation 3.

Trivia[]
The Inferno Armor was previously available as bonus content for pre-ordering Mass Effect 2 from certain retailers. The email is also the same.
References[]

↑ Mass Effect 2: Game Info: Downloadable Content






Mass Effect 2 Downloadable Content




Promotional

Blood Dragon Armor • Collectors' Weapon and Armor • Inferno Armor  M-29 Incisor Sniper Rifle • Terminus Weapon and Armor


Cerberus Network

Zaeed - The Price of Revenge • Normandy Crash Site  Cerberus Weapon and Armor • Arc Projector • Firewalker Pack


Missions

Kasumi - Stolen Memory • Overlord • Lair of the Shadow Broker • Arrival


Additional Content

Alternate Appearance Packs •  Equalizer Pack • Aegis Pack • Firepower Pack  Mass Effect: Genesis • Recon Operations Pack • N7 Complete Arsenal Bundle




