




Eriksson

Andromeda / Heleus Cluster







System View


Stellar Mass
N/A


Stellar Class
N/A


Luminosity
N/A


Planets
4


Moons
1


Asteroid Belts
0


Asteroids
0


Objects
5


Eriksson is a system southwest of the Heleus Cluster's Black Hole. It is one FTL jump away from Pytheas, Tecunis, Anasa, and Pfeiffer.
The system has deposits of cobalt, aluminum, and element zero. Small amounts of the latter two can be scooped up via ship-launched probes.
Ark Hyperion first entered the Andromeda galaxy through this system. Suvi deems its arrival a "hell of a wake-up call."

Contents

1 Drifting Initiative Shuttle
2 Eezo-Distorted Kett Wreckage
3 Habitat 7
4 Helluland
5 Markland
6 Scourge Formation
7 Starship Wreckage
8 Starship Wreckage
9 Unnamed Gas Giant (Eriksson)
10 Vinland
11 Trivia


Drifting Initiative Shuttle[]
Note:  This anomaly is part of Doesn't Add Up.
DATA:

Initiative personnel transport and equipment shuttle
Kodiak shell, outpost refit
Status: 04% power reserve
ALERT: Life signs in stasis are present.
ANALYSIS:
Shuttle is intact. Signs of kett weapons fire are present, though it appears the pilot maneuvered effectively to avoid major damage.
Multiple emergency stasis signatures are present. Notifying the Nexus for emergency recovery.
Awards +270 XP, +29 AVP , +2% Eos viability, and random Salvage.

Eezo-Distorted Kett Wreckage[]
Note:  This anomaly is part of Doesn't Add Up.
DATA:

Kett small craft debris
Mass-distortion shear
Cause: Fuel cell impact and explosion
ANALYSIS:
Scatter field suggests a high-velocity impact with a Kodiak-spec element zero fuel cell. If the impact was intentional, jettisoning the fuel cell with the proper timing would have been extremely difficult.
NOTE: Kodiak shuttles cannot maintain systems after fuel cell loss.
Awards random Salvage when scanned.

Habitat 7[]
Habitat 7 is the second planet orbiting the star Eriksson.

Main article: Habitat 7
Helluland[]
Helluland is the third planet orbiting the star Eriksson.

Main article: Helluland
Markland[]
Markland is a moon orbiting the planet Unnamed Gas Giant (Eriksson).

Main article: Markland
Scourge Formation[]
Note:  This anomaly is part of Meridian: The Way Home.
DATA:

Spatial anomaly related to the Scourge
Dark energy discernible from gravitational and radiation effects
Composition: Ice, mineral debris, element zero, unknown materials
ANALYSIS:
A dense pocket of Scourge matter. A probe deposited within the center of the formation may be used to collect data.
Awards +270 XP when scanned.

Starship Wreckage[]
Note:  This anomaly is part of Task: Missing Scientists.
DATA:

Ship ident: Nexus 33-12
Ship name: "Eudoxus"
Crew complement: 7
Status: Reported missing, presumed lost
ANALYSIS:
The Eudoxus sustained pervasive damage due to Scourge flares that wiped out all internal systems. Dr. Aridana's crew was killed instantly. Vessel adrift, unsalvageable due to radiation.
Awards +50  when scanned.

Starship Wreckage[]
Note:  This anomaly is part of Safe Journeys.
DATA:

Ship ident: Voneraan-235
Ship name: Anj Alesh
Crew complement: 6
Status: N/A
ANALYSIS:
This angaran survey vessel suffered catastrophic damage during a high-speed collision with the Scourge. Most wreckage remains trapped inside the anomaly.
Awards +50  when scanned.

Unnamed Gas Giant (Eriksson)[]
Unnamed Gas Giant (Eriksson) is the fourth planet orbiting the star Eriksson.

Main article: Unnamed Gas Giant (Eriksson)
Vinland[]
Vinland is the first planet orbiting the star Eriksson.

Main article: Vinland
Trivia[]
The system is named after Viking explorer Leif Eriksson, one of the first Europeans to cross the Atlantic to America. Several of its worlds follow a naming scheme derived from Eriksson's discoveries.



