









Erinya
Asari Merchant

Race
Asari


Gender
Feminine


Voice Actor
Jane Singer


Appearances
Mass Effect 2


Erinya is the Baria Frontiers representative on Illium. She tends to the corporation's kiosk in Nos Astra's transportation hub.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Background[]
Erinya bonded with another asari despite the stigma attached to such a pairing. Herself the child of two asari, Erinya had two pureblood daughters with her unnamed bondmate. She holds xenophobic beliefs, claiming that only the asari are worthy of having an interstellar presence. In her mind, salarians were responsible for unleashing the rachni, and compounded that problem by unleashing another when they uplifted the krogan. She believes the turians to be trigger-happy military fanatics and resents the quarians for creating the geth. She is equally antagonistic towards humans, who she claims lured the geth back to the galaxy with the uncovering of the Prothean Beacon.
Erinya's xenophobic attitudes, her parentage, and her generally unpleasant demeanor leaves her the subject of gossip on Illium. A pair of asari near the Baria Frontiers kiosk openly discuss their animosity against her. For her part, Erinya equally derides those who stigmatized the term "pureblood", calling them short-sighted self-hating malcontents.
Erinya also works as a contract negotiator, and has done so when humans were still "burning witches" and enslaving each other. She has not lost a contract dispute in 70 years.

Mass Effect 2[]
Erinya is overseeing a contract involving the colonists on Feros, which would have cured them of their residual health problems after dealing with the Thorian. However, the contract details allows Baria Frontiers to perform invasive medical tests on the colonists without their consent. If the colonists try to back out of the contract, they would be responsible for the full price that they would have to pay normally, which they cannot afford.
A colony representative, either Shiala or a human woman, approaches Commander Shepard for their help in altering the contract. Shepard can talk to Erinya and convince her to prepare an amended contract. The reasons behind her xenophobia is revealed during the conversation: she holds aliens responsible for the death of her whole family. Her bondmate, who loved quarian arts, was killed during the geth uprising on the quarian homeworld. Both of her daughters loved exploring new cultures and lived and worked on the Citadel, but they were killed during the Battle of the Citadel. One of Erinya's daughters worked as a receptionist at the Citadel embassies; the other as a greeter at the Consort's Chambers.
Shepard can remind Erinya that her family chose to mingle with aliens, and they would not like the line of thinking she adopted. She collapses in sad remembrance, but comes around and decides to send an amended contract to the Feros colonists before walking away. There's enough grief in the galaxy and she doesn't want to add to it.

Trivia[]
Erinya's name is possibly derived from the Greek Erinyes (literally "the angry ones"), which was one of the names for the Furies, the Greek goddesses of vengeance.



