









Fai Dan
Zhu's Hope Colonist

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
Armin Shimerman


Appearances
Mass Effect


Fai Dan is the human leader of the Zhu's Hope colony, on Feros.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
Fai Dan explains the situation on Feros to Commander Shepard, including details on the geth attack. He is very polite towards the Commander unlike Arcelia Silva Martinez and chastises her for being rude. He gives basic information about the planet and the colony, however he is unable to provide any motive behind the geth attack. 
Oddly, whenever the other colonists are asked about Zhu's Hope, they tell Shepard to go and ask Fai Dan, yet he is reluctant to discuss some subjects, especially Ian Newstead. However, he cares deeply for the colonists, and is anxious for Shepard's help. He requests the Commander's help in destroying a geth transmitter in the tunnels that is coordinating their attacks. 
Along with the other Zhu's Hope colonists, Fai Dan has been infected with the Thorian spores, but appears to have more autonomy than the others. The Thorian might have used him as a local "controller" for the colonists, exploiting him as he was their leader.
After returning from the ExoGeni headquarters and disarming the Thorian-controlled colonists at Zhu's Hope, Shepard's squad encounters Fai Dan, who approaches Shepard with a pistol while struggling to resist the Thorian's influence. He laments about the infection of the colonists, feeling responsible for what he felt was his duty to protect them as their leader. He points the pistol at Shepard, claiming the Thorian wants the Commander stopped. However, before Shepard can fire in self-defence, Fai Dan manages to overcome the Thorian's control and shoots himself in the head.

Trivia[]
Fai Dan's suicide is possibly a reference to Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan, where the captain of the Reliant performs a similar act while fighting off mind control.
In the French version of Mass Effect, Fai Dan's death is slightly different. His final words "I won't!" are replaced by a strangled "Oh no!".
Fai Dan's voice actor Armin Shimerman also provides the voice for Valern, the salarian Councilor.



