









FENRIS Mech




Race
Mech


Type
Synthetic


Faction
Various


Armament
Taser


Abilities
 Post-Mortem Explosion


Health
Moderate


Armor
Low


Locations
Freedom's Progress, Illium, Purgatory, MSV Strontium Mule, Capek, Zorya


FENRIS Mechs are mechanical constructs designed by Hahne-Kedar specifically for security. Like other mechs produced by Hahne-Kedar, they are identifiable by their white armor and red lights. For many humans, the FENRIS Mechs are viewed as the mechanical analogs of "attack dogs" and mimic dog-like behavior when they attack a target, which may be related to Hahne-Kedar being an Alliance-Based Corporation.
FENRIS Mechs are less common than the LOKI Mech variant, but have been seen on Alliance offworld colonies, and are deployed by the Blue Suns mercenary group.
FENRIS Mechs possess advanced sensory equipment allowing them to detect weapons and narcotics, used in the same manner bomb- and drug-sniffing dogs would, and have been seen deployed alongside LOKI Mechs. A major disadvantage to FENRIS Mechs, and indeed to all mechs, is that their software programming can be hacked, altered, or overridden by an experienced hacker, and FENRIS Mechs can be turned against those they are tasked with serving.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
When attacking, a FENRIS Mech will accelerate to a set speed and jump with its rear legs, bringing the target down with its front legs in an animalistic pounce-like motion. After the target is struck, they are stunned by a taser device embedded in the 'head' of the FENRIS. When a FENRIS Mech is severely damaged, the mech will deactivate and remain stationary. If shot while in this deactivated state, the mech will explode. FENRIS Mechs are deployed in packs and make a habit of 'swarming' enemy positions.
Defensive
FENRIS Mechs possesses only weak armor on higher difficulties making them relatively easy to dispatch, but they are usually deployed in groups.

Tactics[]
FENRIS mechs are very weak, and Incendiary Ammo (against their armor) or Disruptor Ammo (against their health) will bring them down quickly. They are much quicker than other mechs, however, and usually attack in groups. If priority is not given to incapacitating them at range, they can become a major threat, disabling shields and stunning characters out of cover leaving them easy prey for other enemy fire.
Cryo Ammo and Biotic powers such as Throw or Pull are effective at disabling the mechs, giving you time to destroy them, however on higher difficulties any armor they have must first be stripped before they can be disabled.
At full gallop, FENRIS mechs are some of the fastest enemies in the game, so fast that they can actually evade many of Shepard's powers by outrunning the projectiles. Lead and aim powers carefully or use instantaneous or very fast powers such as Slam, Overload, or Concussive Shot to counter this. Squadmate powers are usually instant as well.
The tendency of FENRIS Mechs to explode on death can be as big of a threat as their attacks, as the explosions not only deal moderate damage but can stagger you out of cover. For this reason it's even more important to take them out or at least immobilize them before they can get too close, and give them a wide berth when they die.
Trivia[]
FENRIS Mechs are likely named after Fenrir (also known as Fenrisulfr, meaning 'Fenris wolf'), a monstrous wolf featured in Norse mythology. Appropriately, Fenrir the wolf is the son of the god Loki.
Sometimes when the FENRIS Mech is hacked it will stand in the same place until it is destroyed by its former ally or the hack time runs out. (Xbox 360)


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




