




Feros

Region
Milky Way / Attican Beta / Theseus





Planet View


Orbital Distance
2.15 AU


Orbital Period
3.2 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.971


Radius
8,366 km


Day Length
30.3 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
5.44 atm


Surface Temp
10 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.1 g


Mass
1.879 Earth Masses


Satellites
Orcan, Vardet


Location: Milky Way / Attican Beta / Theseus System /  Second planet


Colony

Species
Human


Capital
ExoGeni Building


Colony Founded
2178


Population
300



Prerequisite: Citadel: Expose Saren (Mass Effect)

Prerequisite: Priority: Tuchanka (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Missions
4 Assignments
5 Search and Rescue
6 Trivia


Description[]
The ExoGeni Corporation has founded a pilot colony on Feros to explore the Prothean ruins that blanket two-thirds of the planet's land mass. The atmosphere is fouled with dust. Terrestrial travel is hampered by crumbled debris dozens of meters deep. There are indications that Feros was a much colder world in the past. Feros has two large moons, Orcan (the farther) and Vardet.

Codex Entry[]





Audio: Feroshttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Feros_Codex.ogg

Feros is a habitable world in the Attican Beta cluster. Two-thirds of the habitable surface is covered with the ruins of a crumbling Prothean megatropolis. In the millennia since the Prothean extinction, the ruins have been picked over by looters many times.
Feros was considered a poor prospect for colonization, as little open ground remains for agriculture. The only sizable fresh water sources are the poles, which are tapped by the decaying Prothean aqueduct systems. The dead cities, while in good condition considering their antiquity, are of uncertain stability. Ground level is congested by a dozen meters of fallen debris, and the air is fouled by dust.
In 2178, the human ExoGeni Corporation announced its intention to place a permanent colony on Feros, to thoroughly explore the ruins. The pioneer settlement was placed on the upper levels of several intact skyscrapers, using the surviving Prothean aqueducts and rooftop hydroponic gardens to support the population.


Missions[]

Mission: Feros: Geth Attack
Mission: Feros: The Thorian
Assignments[]
Assignment: Feros: Data Recovery
Assignment: Feros: Geth in the Tunnels
Assignment: Feros: Power Cells
Assignment: Feros: Varren Meat
Assignment: Feros: Water Restoration
Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
ExoGeni Scientists
Trivia[]
In the original version of Mass Effect, the moon of Feros visible from the Prothean Skyway on the drive to ExoGeni HQ shares the same asset as the one used to represent satellites on the skyboxes of Klensal, Amaranthine, Ontarom, Eletania, and Binthu. In Mass Effect Legendary Edition, the texture is replaced with one unique to Feros.



