



The Firewalker Pack is a DLC pack for Mass Effect 2. It was announced on February 25, 2010 and released on March 23, 2010.[1]

Content[]
One vehicle:
The M-44 Hammerhead, a hover tank used for planetary exploration on hostile worlds.
Five assignments:
Project Firewalker: Rosalie Lost
Project Firewalker: Geth Incursion
Project Firewalker: Survey Sites Located
Galaxy Map: Firewalker: Artifact Collection
Project Firewalker: Volcano Station
Galaxy Map: Firewalker: Recover Research Data
Project Firewalker: Prothean Site
Galaxy Map: Firewalker: Prothean Ruin
In all of the assignments, the screen to choose squadmates is presented, however aside from incidental comments, the choice of squadmates does not impact any of the missions. All combat and resource gathering occurs within the Hammerhead.

Seven locations:
The Dranek system located in the Krogan DMZ cluster.
The Chomos located in The Phoenix Massing cluster.
The Verr system located in the Hawking Eta cluster.
The Yakawa system located in the Caleston Rift cluster.
The Hoplos system located in the Hades Nexus cluster.
The Elysta system in the Ismar Frontier cluster (if Zaeed - The Price of Revenge wasn't downloaded).
One cabin item:
A Prothean relic
A Fuel Depot is added to the Widow system.
Pricing[]
The Firewalker Pack requires download and/or purchase of the Cerberus Network. Alternatively, it is part of Mass Effect Legendary Edition.

References[]

↑ https://web.archive.org/web/20160731152107/https://forum.bioware.com/topic/96413-firewalker-mission-pack-with-the-hammerhead-vehicle-coming-tuesday-march-23/






Mass Effect 2 Downloadable Content




Promotional

Blood Dragon Armor • Collectors' Weapon and Armor • Inferno Armor  M-29 Incisor Sniper Rifle • Terminus Weapon and Armor


Cerberus Network

Zaeed - The Price of Revenge • Normandy Crash Site  Cerberus Weapon and Armor • Arc Projector • Firewalker Pack


Missions

Kasumi - Stolen Memory • Overlord • Lair of the Shadow Broker • Arrival


Additional Content

Alternate Appearance Packs •  Equalizer Pack • Aegis Pack • Firepower Pack  Mass Effect: Genesis • Recon Operations Pack • N7 Complete Arsenal Bundle




