



Firebase White is a multiplayer map in Mass Effect 3. It is located in a Cerberus base on Noveria in the Earth Systems Alliance Space. In single-player, the Galaxy at War mission N7: Cerberus Fighter Base takes place on this map.

Contents

1 Description
2 Hazard Version
3 Original Version
4 Locations

4.1 Landing Pad
4.2 Stairs
4.3 Upper Level
4.4 Lower Level
4.5 Hallway
4.6 Interior
4.7 Launch Ramp


5 Player Notes
6 Trivia
7 References


Description[]
The Horse Head Nebula is key to the southeastern front at the edge of human space, as the relay located there is the bridge between the human Exodus Cluster and the hanar homeworld of Kahje. Should the nebula fall, the Reapers will inflict massive casualties on the nearly defenseless hanar.[1]

Hazard Version[]
Mass Effect 3: Retaliation adds a version of Firebase White that is set during a whiteout.


Visibility is decreased outdoors, making it harder to see enemy forces approaching.

Original Version[]
With Retaliation uninstalled, the original version of this map will be used instead. This original version lacks one of the connections between the upper level and the hallway and the staircase connection between the hallway and the interior (see below). One of the catwalks outside is also smaller.
Because of some hosts using modified game files, it is possible to land in an Original Firebase White match even with Retaliation installed.

Locations[]
Landing Pad[]
Landing pad with a Cerberus fighter docked. Players begin and extract at this location.

Connects to the Stairs (down a staircase).
Connects to the Upper Level (up two different staircases).
Connects to the Lower Level (down a ladder).
There is an ammo dump near the railing opposite and in-between the doorways leading into the Hallway.
There is a second ammo dump in the corner of the map on a small platform surrounded by railing.

Stairs[]
Connecting area.

Connects to the Landing Pad (up a staircase).
Connects to the Lower Level (down a staircase).
Connects to the Upper Level (up a ladder).
Upper Level[]
Raised walkway that oversees the outside area of the map.

Connects to the Hallway (through two doorways).
Connects to the Stairs (down a ladder).
Connects to the Landing Pad (down two different staircases).
Lower Level[]
Lower exterior area.

Connects to the Stairs (up a staircase).
Connects to the Landing Pad (up a ladder).
Connects to the Launch Ramp (directly).
Connects to the Interior (through a doorway).
There is an ammo dump located against the railing in a dark area on the second mezzanine leading to the ladder up to the Landing Pad.

Hallway[]
Upper Cerberus interior area.

Connects to the Upper Level (through two doorways).
Connects to the Interior (down a staircase).
Connects to the Interior (through a doorway).
There is an ammo dump in the corner area of the lower stairwell leading to the doorway into the Interior.

Interior[]
Lower Cerberus interior area.

Connects to the Hallway (up a staircase).
Connects to the Hallway (through a doorway).
Connects to the Launch Ramp (through a doorway).
Connects to the Lower Level (through a doorway).
Launch Ramp[]
Catwalk area at the back corner of the map.

Connects to the Interior (through a doorway).
Connects to the Lower Level (directly).
There is an ammo dump in the corner area surround by railing behind some low cover.

Player Notes[]
General
Grenade resupply for the ammo dump locations is the same for the Hazard Map as it is for the General Map.


Grenade Resupply Location
Bronze
Silver
Gold
Platinum


Hallway
4
2
2
2


Launch Ramp
4
2
2
2


Lower Level
4
2
2
2


Upper Level (Corner)
2
1
1
1


Upper Level (Doorways)
4
2
2
2


Firebase White does not have an ammo dump at the extraction zone. The closest one is up the ramp on your right. Remember to grab some ammo before heading to the extraction zone or to conserve a Thermal Clip for the final wave. Extraction is still relatively easy. The parked fighter provides good cover and enemies have to come at the players in a straight line over a large distance no matter from what angle they approach.
There are 3 main holdout points on this map: a ledge overlooking both the courtyard and landing pad, perfect for sniping and crowd control; a small room down the back ramp from said ledge with only two points of entrance, allowing enemies to flow into choke points; and a final, larger room that enemies can approach from all directions but has plentiful cover, allowing for effective close combat. All three have an ammo dump fairly nearby.
The corner in the back doorway between the hallway and the upper level is considered to be the most reliable camping spot in the game for soloing players.
The Interior area is no longer an efficient place to camp after the release of Retaliation. A new staircase was added that connects the Hallway and Interior behind the far L-shaped terminal, as well as another that provides a second connection between the Hallway and Upper Level. In addition, the catwalk area with the ladder that leads to the Landing Pad has also been made larger. These changes were done to prevent people from camping in the lower counters.[2]
Camping is still possible, but the locations have changed to the new hallways. The confined spaces make grenades, turrets, and powers such as Shockwave and Flamer effective.
Hazard
Playing as classes who have visual overlays from Rage, Bloodlust, Hunter Mode, and similar abilities is ill-advised due to the almost complete blindness the whiteouts will cause in the outdoor areas.
Cerberus troops and their white colouring blend in extremely effectively on this map. It's advised to try to lure them indoors.
Original
Camping in the Interior area is effective and allows to funnel the enemies into one place. This strategy is particularly effective on lower difficulty levels.
Trivia[]
White is by far the most popular map for soloing the Platinum difficulty.[3]
References[]

↑ http://masseffect.bioware.com/about/multiplayer/

↑ https://web.archive.org/web/20160731151746/https://forum.bioware.com/topic/406788-hey-firebase-white/

↑ https://www.prestaciouschallenges.com/statistics




Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer Maps


Original Maps

Firebase Dagger • Firebase Ghost • Firebase Giant • Firebase Reactor • Firebase Glacier •  Firebase White


Resurgence Maps

Firebase Hydra • Firebase Condor


Rebellion Maps

Firebase Jade • Firebase Goddess


Earth Maps

Firebase Rio • Firebase Vancouver • Firebase London





