


Firebase Glacier is a multiplayer map in Mass Effect 3. It is located on Sanctum. In single-player, the Galaxy at War mission N7: Cerberus Lab takes place on this map.
Contents

1 Description
2 Hazard Version
3 Original Version
4 Locations

4.1 Balcony
4.2 Science Lab
4.3 Hub
4.4 Upper Basement
4.5 Lower Basement


5 Player Notes
6 Trivia
7 References


Description[]
The taking of Khar'shan has driven the once-populous batarian colony of Lorek into a frenzy: Cerberus and Reaper units occupying the planet have met much higher resistance than on other planets. Lorek's forces are so skilled that they serve as a training camp for other troops fighting against the Reapers throughout the Omega Nebula.[1]

Hazard Version[]
Mass Effect 3: Retaliation adds a version of Firebase Glacier that is set during a Seeker Swarm containment breach.


A massive Seeker Swarm travels around the map, causing heavy damage to anyone near it, friend or foe.

Original Version[]
With Retaliation uninstalled, the original version of this map will be used instead. In the original version, the central room in the Hub area (see below) is unlocked and the science lab ammo dump is moved to the lowest spot of the map.
Because of some hosts using modified game files, it is possible to land in an Original Firebase Glacier match even with Retaliation installed.

Locations[]
Balcony[]
An exterior multi-level area overlooking the facility. Players begin on the upper walkway and extract on the lower area.

Connects to the Science Lab (through a large doorway).
Connects to the Upper Basement (through a large doorway).
There is an ammo dump located in the corner of the lower area. 

Science Lab[]
The central research area.

Connects to the Balcony (through a large doorway).
Connects to the Hub (through a large doorway).
Connects to the Hub (directly).
There is an ammo dump located by the bank of windows overlooking the extraction zone.

Hub[]
A blind hallway and junction area.

Connects to the Science Lab (through a large doorway).
Connects to the Science Lab (directly).
Connects to the Lower Basement (down a long staircase).
Connects to the Upper Basement (through a large doorway).
Upper Basement[]
A long connecting hallway.

Connects to the Hub (through a large doorway).
Connects to the Balcony (through a large doorway).
Connects to the Lower Basement (down a staircase).
Lower Basement[]
The lower research area.

Connects to the Hub (up a long staircase).
Connects to the Upper Basement (up a staircase).
There is an ammo dump located on a small platform next to the middle of the long staircase connecting to the Hub.

Player Notes[]
General

Grenade resupply for the ammo dump locations is the same for the Hazard Map as it is for the General Map.


Grenade Resupply Location
Bronze
Silver
Gold
Platinum


Balcony
2
1
1
1


Lower Basement
2
1
1
1


Science Lab
2
1
1
1


Firebase Glacier is the smallest map on multiplayer. Because of the layout of the map, close-quarters battles are difficult to avoid. Shotguns with a lot of punch are very effective. Consistent use of sniper rifles requires a lot of skill and many players will wish to carry a secondary weapon to switch to against fast-moving targets in close quarters.
Not only is the map small, but the hallways are rather narrow in places. This can sometimes be used to one's advantage. When facing the Reapers, some waves will feature Brutes and Ravagers. If the slower-moving Ravagers are in front, they will sometimes block the Brutes (and possibly other enemies) from advancing, creating a bottleneck. This is a good opportunity to use your Cobra Missile Launcher to eliminate multiple enemies at once. You can also use this opportunity to concentrate your fire and powers on the Brutes.
Powers with significant area of effect (like Recon Mine, Flamer or Dark Sphere) can be used here to devastating effect. Because most of the alleys are fairly thin and moderate in length, one well-placed Dark Sphere can obliterate a whole squad of lighter enemies.
A sniper using a moderate-high damage rifle with penetrating abilities can get a clear shot (and even single-hit headshot kills on lower difficulties) at enemy spawns on the Balcony from within the relative safety of the Science Lab.
Power Combos can be employed to a very strong effect due to the map's narrowness. Classes like the N7 Fury or N7 Paladin can devastate on this map.
Because of the small rooms and narrow corridors of the base, it is a perfect place to use mines. The Recon Mine can be used with devastating effect if it is deployed in one of the spawning areas such as the basement.
Grenade-carrying classes will have a tough time refilling their supplies since this map has the stingiest ammo crates. Equip the Grenade Capacity Gear and make use of ammo packs to avoid grenade depletion.
With the quantity issues resolved, grenades are just as destructive as power combos.
Note: Despite the official description listing the mission location as Khar'shan, Firebase Glacier is actually located on the planet Sanctum.
Hazard

Note: Shooting at the seeker swarm will agitate it and cause it to rapidly expand in size for a brief time.
Note: The seeker swarm is invulnerable. The player wastes ammo if they attempt to kill the swarm.
The map is divided into 3 sections; the hazard will always move to the section where the game's host is and will start making circles on a predetermined path in this section.[2]
One needs to keep on the move when the hazard swarm approaches, as it is hard enough to deal with enemies on their own. When the swarm comes near, taking out the enemies from a stationary position becomes an absolute nightmare, especially on higher difficulties. The swarm is very slow, which can play slightly in your favor, but if it gets close to you you will certainly know about it. You should stay alert when performing objectives as the swarm can surprise you on this map and will pick off anybody who isn't paying attention.
This is probably the most challenging Hazard map. The swarm can block escape routes from tough fights. It forces you to fight a continually mobile battle, which can be challenging for those used to larger maps. Furthermore, it makes any Hacking and Escort objective extremely difficult, and can considerably complicate Extraction.
If push comes to shove, and the player finds themselves trapped between a horde of enemies on one side, and the swarm on the other, it is advisable to simply sprint through the swarm. Most characters can do so without fully losing their shields, depending on the size of the swarm. If the player's health and shields are low, it may be better to weave through the enemies in a zig-zag pattern, as a sprint through the swarm guarantees a death. Alternatively, use an Ops Survival Pack just before reaching the swarm and get through unscathed.
Original

The central room provides a very strong camping spot for the entire team. In case of getting overwhelmed anyway, Cobra missiles may need to e used.
The ammo dump that was moved to a small platform near the middle of the long staircase connecting to the Hub after the addition of Mass Effect 3: Retaliation, is positioned in the Lower Basement near the L-shaped counter in the original version.
Trivia[]
Glacier is by far the fastest map for speedrunning the game solo.[3]
References[]

↑ http://www.masseffect.com/about/multiplayer/

↑ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2r3WX0PmnHg

↑ https://mehof.smehur.com/SoloRuns/HallsOfFame?difficulty=Gold&notes=Sub%2020




Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer Maps


Original Maps

Firebase Dagger • Firebase Ghost • Firebase Giant • Firebase Reactor • Firebase Glacier •  Firebase White


Resurgence Maps

Firebase Hydra • Firebase Condor


Rebellion Maps

Firebase Jade • Firebase Goddess


Earth Maps

Firebase Rio • Firebase Vancouver • Firebase London





