


The Firepower Pack is a DLC pack for Mass Effect 2 which adds three new weapons. The Firepower Pack was released on August 3, 2010.[1]

Contents

1 Description
2 Content
3 Emails
4 Pricing
5 Trivia
6 References


Description[]
When a "heavy" pistol won't do the job, the Phalanx brings the bang! It hits like a hand cannon and features an integral laser sight for a whole new aiming experience! Ever wanted a sniper rifle without the scope or an assault rifle without the recoil? The Mattock heavy rifle is a hybrid of the two, a semi-auto beast usable with any class with an assault rifle skill! The Geth Plasma Shotgun is a three-barreled monster that creates plasma the right way—on impact! Charge it up for even greater damage, or blast away rapid-fire at longer ranges than normal shotguns!

Content[]
Three weapons:
M-5 Phalanx
M-96 Mattock
Geth Plasma Shotgun
Emails[]



Phalanx Heavy Pistol 
Shepard, 

EDI informed me that Jacob recently acquired some M5 Phalanx pistols from some friends who shall remain unnamed. I appreciate this resourcefulness, but had he come to me, I would have made the arrangements. We've discussed this, and to show there are no hard feelings, I've had a few more complimentary Phalanxes, replacement parts for their laser sights, and their repair manuals delivered to the Normandy. Use them how you will.









Mattock Heavy Rifle 
Shepard, 

Miranda has been working with EDI on crunching battle telemetry numbers, and EDI had an interesting thought. She suggested we may be overlooking older, proven technologies in an effort to provide you with the state of art. Normally I wouldn't give much credence to the idea, but when an AI criticizes you for loving high-tech, it gives one pause to consider. 

With that in mind, I delivered a few heavy rifles, the Mattocks, to the Normandy. They've been modified for thermal clips, but the rest of the rifle should be the old, reliable gun that colonist militias have been using for decades. Good hunting. 









Geth Plasma Shotgun 
Shepard, 

A cell of ours acquired an interesting weapon from the geth. It's much like a shotgun, but it's higher tech -- something to do with the firing superconductors that create plasma on impact. Its ammunition is more specialized than those of our shotguns, but it's not hard to make or modify. I've arranged delivery of a few of these weapons to the Normandy. 




Pricing[]
The Firepower Pack is available for 160 BioWare Points on PC, and $1.99 USD on consoles.

Trivia[]
Designed with a "full understanding of what Mass Effect 2 is," each weapon in the Firepower Pack was created "to disrupt, not fit into, the existing weapon ecosystem," giving a fresh experience to players already familiar with the game.[2]
References[]

↑ Mass Effect 2 DLC

↑ Christina Norman's blog Secrets of the Firepower Pack






Mass Effect 2 Downloadable Content




Promotional

Blood Dragon Armor • Collectors' Weapon and Armor • Inferno Armor  M-29 Incisor Sniper Rifle • Terminus Weapon and Armor


Cerberus Network

Zaeed - The Price of Revenge • Normandy Crash Site  Cerberus Weapon and Armor • Arc Projector • Firewalker Pack


Missions

Kasumi - Stolen Memory • Overlord • Lair of the Shadow Broker • Arrival


Additional Content

Alternate Appearance Packs •  Equalizer Pack • Aegis Pack • Firepower Pack  Mass Effect: Genesis • Recon Operations Pack • N7 Complete Arsenal Bundle




