






This article is about the talent in Mass Effect and the power in Mass Effect 3. For the squad revival and healing ability in Mass Effect and Mass Effect 2, see Unity.

Contents

1 Mass Effect

1.1 Talent Levels
1.2 Classes


2 Mass Effect 3


Mass Effect[]

First Aid is a tech talent available to Engineers, Sentinels, the Turian Agent, and the Asari Scientist, and is unlockable for Soldiers, Infiltrators, and the Quarian Machinist. Increasing ranks of First Aid increases the amount of health restored to the entire squad per use. First Aid differs from most tech talents in its use, activated through an independent hotkey (defaults are 'F' key for PC, 'Y' for 360, and 'Triangle' for PS3). 
First Aid consumes 1 unit of medi-gel per use. The amount of health restored per use is determined by the combined skill of the squad in First Aid. It can still be used even when there are zero points invested in the talent for any member of the squad including the player, but this restores only 40 points of health. 
First Aid has a base cooldown period of 60 seconds (Legendary Edition:  20 seconds), which can be further reduced by some talents such as Medicine, many models of omni-tool, and also the Asari Scientist class talent. Conversely, the cooldown can be increased if the player is affected by Damping.   
The First Aid achievement is unlocked by using First Aid 150 times. This also unlocks First Aid for use as a potential bonus talent for the Adept and Vanguard classes.
Sentinels and Engineers trained as medics can use First Aid to revive downed squadmates and ignore toxic damage. This is the only method for reviving downed squadmates while in active combat on foot in Mass Effect other than the Unity ability that is unlocked from Spectre Training.

Talent Levels[]
Increases health restored upon activating First Aid by 40.
Increases health restored upon activating First Aid by 50.
Increases health restored upon activating First Aid by 60.
Increases health restored upon activating First Aid by 70. Unlocks Electronics (Asari Scientist).
Increases health restored upon activating First Aid by 80. Unlocks Medicine (Engineer, Sentinel) .
Increases health restored upon activating First Aid by 100.
Increases health restored upon activating First Aid by 110. Unlocks Electronics (Turian Agent).
Increases health restored upon activating First Aid by 120.
Increases health restored upon activating First Aid by 130.
Increases health restored upon activating First Aid by 140.
Increases health restored upon activating First Aid by 150.
Increases health restored upon activating First Aid by 180.
Classes[]
These classes have access to the First Aid talent:

Engineer
Infiltrator Unlockable
Sentinel
Soldier Unlockable
Asari Scientist
Quarian Machinist Unlockable
Turian Agent
Mass Effect 3[]
In Mass Effect 3, the Unity power from Mass Effect 2 has been superseded by the First Aid ability available to all single-player classes. Shepard can use First Aid to heal NPC squad members that have taken health damage, revive fallen squadmates to full health and shields, and restore all of Shepard's health bars on all difficulties except Insanity. On Insanity difficulty, First Aid will only restore all health bars if Shepard is not currently taking health damage; otherwise, it will only restore about 2 to 2.5 segments of Shepard's health. 
Unlike in Mass Effect 2, First Aid in Mass Effect 3 can only restore a squadmate's health and has no effect on their shields. Deploying medi-gel with First Aid is not the only way to revive fallen squad members, as a "manual" individual revival can also be performed by the player at a squad member's body. However, First Aid is the only way to revive squad members executed by enemy instant-kill attacks such as the Banshee's impale. 
As with Unity in Mass Effect 2, use of First Aid depletes the player's stock of medi-gel, but no more than one unit of medi-gel is ever expended per use. If the Efficiency Increase medi-gel upgrade is obtained, there is a 50% chance that using First Aid will not expend medi-gel. 
First Aid does not share the universal cooldown of powers, and it actually has no recharge time at all, allowing it to be used repeatedly in almost any situation, unless the player is stunned or otherwise unable to perform the activation animation with the omni-tool. The activation of First Aid will interrupt Shepard while running. First Aid can be used without interrupting the charging feature possessed by several weapons in Mass Effect 3, such as the Venom Shotgun, Kishock Harpoon Gun, and the Acolyte heavy pistol. Doing this once charging a shot has begun or a full charge is being held circumvents the usual activation animation of First Aid. First Aid can also be used during the effects of powers with an active duration on the player such as Adrenaline Rush, Tactical Cloak, and Marksman.



Mass Effect Talents


Biotic

Barrier • Lift • Singularity • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Assault Rifles • Pistols • Shotguns • Sniper Rifles • Assault Training • Fitness • Basic Armor • Combat Armor • Tactical Armor


Tech

Damping • Decryption • Electronics • First Aid • Hacking • Medicine


Class

Adept • Asari Scientist • Engineer • Infiltrator • Krogan Battlemaster • Quarian Machinist • Sentinel • Soldier • Turian Agent • Vanguard


Player only

Charm • Intimidate • Spectre Training




