


Recover Raashel Vier's data from the ruins of her jungle home
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Recover data from Raashel's personal console
2.2 Find a network access node


3 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: A Trail of Hope I

Talk to Raashel Vier (marked with a) in Pelaav Research Station on Havarl to obtain this mission.

Walkthrough[]
Raashel Vier is an archeoastronomer trying to find potential lost angara worlds. However, when disaster struck Havarl, her home was ruined. She has found that possibly not all of her work was destroyed, but aggressive wildlife is keeping her away. She asks that Pathfinder Ryder investigate for her while she keeps in contact via comm.

Recover data from Raashel's personal console[]
The Ruins of Raashel's Home is north of Pelaav Research Station. The navpoint leads to the Angaran Database. As you approach, Raashel informs you that you're getting close to her home, while SAM notes that there are many agitated lifeforms nearby. Upon moving closer, you'll be attacked by several Challyrions. 
Going there, other wildlife from the surrounding area may also be drawn to your team's presence. Dralls, Rylkors, or even Eirochs may turn aggressive and attack, but the primary enemies here are the Challyrions infesting Raashel's house. Eliminating the house pests isn't strictly necessary, but be warned that they can damage and kill you while you're interfacing with the mission objective, so might as well do the necessary precautions. There's an ammo supply cache next to the ruin if you need it.
At the ruined house SAM reports that the Angaran Database seems to be damaged. On closer inspection, it is indeed beyond repair. Relaying the news to Raashel, Ryder asks if she had backups. She did, but they went down as well, and the network memory center is now buried underground. Though the chances of finding a surface access point are slim, you decide to take a look. 
As this is the only mission related to this small section of Havarl, if you're not planning to grind for experience here later you might as well clean the area out. There is a partially buried Angaran Integrated Tech Node next to the damaged computer that can be scanned for +100 and a Mineral Cache by the door. On the roof are two lootable containers.
West from the house, just below some rocks in front of the stairs is a container. Northwest from the house, below a Remnant arch, is a container. East from the house there's a health cache and another Angaran Integrated Tech Node (+100) next to a silo. On a small cave also at the east is a container. Below the west Remnant wall is a half-buried container and another Angaran Integrated Tech Node (+100).
There are about 4 nickel and 3 platinum nodes in the area. Two of the nickel nodes are close to the dirt path leading to the shack while the others can be found below the three Remnant walls bounding the place, on rocks or small caves.

Find a network access node[]
On approach to the fire, SAM detects a reading for an active network node. Using the scanner, track down the Computer visible next to a few rocks. Interact with the console. Raashel is able to retrieve her data, and says that if her data could be saved, perhaps the research of others could be as well. This concludes the mission. Next to the console is a lootable container.
Rewards[]
+270 XP
+29 AVP 
+2% Havarl viability



