


For the mission, see Freedom's Progress (mission).
Freedom's Progress is a human colony located in the Terminus Systems. Situated on blocky terrain, its nighttime skyline is dominated by what appears to be two moons: a large one hanging overcast, and another one roughly analogous to Luna in size and brightness. It appears to be home to nocturnal lifeforms whose cries are similar to Earth wolves'.
Freedom's Progress is a typical human settlement, with little defenses beyond a small military force, supplemented by mechs and security drones like LOKI Mechs, YMIR Mechs, FENRIS Mechs, Assault Drones and Rocket Drones. 







“I know when something's not right.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Incursion follow.









“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Disappearance[]
See also: Codex/Planets and Locations#Freedom's Progress
According to data collected by the Collectors, Freedom's Progress has a human population of 912,810 in 2183. Two years later, the Collectors attack the colony.
Commander Shepard travels to Freedom's Progress several hours after the Collectors left and finds the inhabitants of the entire colony missing, with no signs of conflict. While there, the Commander encounters Tali'Zorah vas Neema, Prazza, and several other quarians who are searching for another of their kind, Veetor'Nara, who has gone missing while on his Pilgrimage. However, while there, the Commander is confronted by various security drones reprogrammed by Veetor to attack anyone in the area, in order to protect himself should the Collectors return.
The colony's abduction has been recorded by Veetor on his omni-tool. Thanks to this evidence, the Illusive Man has proof the Collectors are involved in attacks on several other human colonies.
News of the disappearance of Freedom's Progress eventually make their way to the galactic community, although reported details remain scant and redacted by sources like the Systems Alliance. Rumors eventually disseminated, with sources claiming it was possibly a politically-motivated terrorist attack from former Council races, enough to make the Citadel Council make formal information requests to the Special Tasks Group. The footage recorded by Veetor which shows the Collectors abducting humans made its way to the Shadow Broker, and can be seen on two screens at the Intel Center in the Shadow Broker Base.
Aid has been swiftly dispatched to the colony although it is unclear if there are any survivors to receive them. Raiders and pirates also jumped at the opportunity and staked out the routes leading to the colony.

Missions[]
Mission: Freedom's Progress (mission)



