


If the Irritated Researcher is spoken to first:
A Voeld scientist is complaining about some kind of interference with his equipment. 
If SAM discovers the interference first:
You've detected a strange source of communication interference. Clear communication is important to Voeld's viability. Any possibility that the kett are somehow tapping in to communications should be investigated. 
A strange meteorite appears to be the source of the communication interference. It must be dealt with.

Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Examine the equipment
2.2 Search for interference source
2.3 Defeat adhi
2.4 Scan meteorite
2.5 Neutralize signal
2.6 Examine meteorite


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Meet the Resistance

This mission can be acquired by two different methods:

Speak to the Irritated Researcher (marked with a) in Hjara Station.
SAM alerts Pathfinder Ryder to a signal interfering with communications equipment if you get close enough to the source.
Walkthrough[]
Examine the equipment[]
Note:  This objective is only shown if the mission is acquired at Hjara Station.
Examine the equipment next to the researcher. SAM detects a faint regular pattern in the signal, indicating it could be potential kett interference, which must be investigated.

Search for interference source[]
Head north-northwest of Techiix to find the meteorite near a small bluff on the edge of the frozen lake. The source turns out to be a meteorite emitting radiation that disturbs communication signals. Unfortunately, one of your squadmates will alert you to a bunch of incoming creatures.

Defeat adhi[]
About 8 Wild Adhi come rushing to the area. Slay them. There's a conveniently-placed ammo cache next to the meteorite if you need refills.
Scan meteorite[]
Scan the meteorite. It's emitting strange energy that disrupts communications and causes heightened aggression in nearby wildlife. SAM can modify your omni-tool so it will dampen the disturbing radiation.

Neutralize signal[]
Interact with the meteorite to try and dampen the signal. Ryder will find that this is a very slow process and another pack of Wild Adhi will attack. 
Again, there's about 8 of them to defeat. After the battle, interact with the meteorite again to finish what you started. This time the dampening process is much faster. 

Examine meteorite[]
A cutscene starts with Ryder and SAM having a discussion about the meteorite. It turns out to be a meteorite that has picked up some traces of the Scourge.
You have to decide what to do with the meteorite: send it to the Nexus to be studied, or leave it on the planet, citing it as too dangerous.
The mission then ends.

Aftermath[]
If the meteorite is sent to the Nexus, you get an e-mail from Chief Lucan.




Curious Voeld Rock
To: Ryder
From: Chief Lucan

Pathfinder,

This rock you found is certainly something. As far as I can tell, it's a remnant of a meteoroid that passed through the Scourge before falling to Voeld, infusing it with a similar charge. The presence of Heleus-native metallic elements within the rock may have allowed for such a transfer. I'm unsure why the adhi reacted to it the way they did.

I've stored it in a lead-lined box. It unnerves me.


Chief Lucan


Rewards[]
+270 XP
+29 AVP 
+2% Voeld viability



