


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
On occasion when Jaal is in the squad, he will engage in conversations unique to him.

Unique Dialogue[]
Throughout Ryder's travels, there are specific points where Jaal will voice his opinions. 

On Helping Havarl's Scientists, once the researchers are freed from stasis Jaal asks Assistant Torvar if none of them remember being frozen. When Torvar leaves, Jaal suggests to Ryder they should make sure the researchers return to Pelaav Research Station, citing unknown aftereffects of the stasis.
On Meet the Resistance, Jaal brokers the introductions between Commander Anjik Do Xeel and the rest of the Pathfinder team. If Anjik doesn't trust Ryder yet, she bids Jaal to be careful at the conclusion, to which he replies he always is.
If Ryder already has a friendly reputation and asks about the front lines, Anjik explains they need more trained personnel. Jaal offers his and the Pathfinder's aid in finding such recruits. If Ryder questions how an outsider like them will convince the angara, Anjik refers to Jaal's own reputation with his kind. If Moshae Sjefa has been saved, Jaal points out being the hero who did that carries weight.
On Voeld:
Following Jaal's first meeting with the lookouts Beniska and Tseek they inquire about the wellbeing of Jaal's sister. He replies she's both recovered and brave for undertaking her last mission.
On Resistance Trap, Bennas thanks the Pathfinder team for the assist. Jaal presumed they were civilians in need but Bennas informs him they're a deliberate trap on marauding kett. He warns Bennas that they're actually putting more people in danger with their actions regardless of whether Ryder agrees or disagrees with their plan.
On Kadara:
After saving some local angara in a firefight in the monolith on Sulfur Springs Jaal assures his people Ryder knows how to interface with the Remnant.
On Behind Enemy Lines, Jaal encourages the angaran sole survivor of a kett attack to not lose hope.
On A People Divided, if Ryder tries to open a dialogue with Farah Noskos she refuses as the Roekaar don't talk with outsiders. Jaal attempts to speak with her as a fellow angara, but is also rebuffed.
Spontaneous[]
Sometimes Jaal will say something spontaneously, without being prompted.

On Eos:
While wandering around on Site 1: Promise, Jaal thinks it's admirable the Initiative kept trying given their difficult start.
While wandering around on Prodromos, Jaal disapproves if the Initiative's first outpost is military, though he understands why.
On Havarl:
Shortly after landing for the first time, if the other squadmate is impressed by the scenery, Jaal agrees but warns that it can also be deadly.
On Helping Havarl's Scientists, after Torvar's team leaves for Pelaav Jaal asks Ryder how SAM helps with interfacing with the Remnant.
While roaming around the Central Wilds after first speaking with Kiiran Dals, Ryder inquires about the meaning of her idiom Ocean of fish, one will have gems in its mouth. Jaal proceeds to recite the whole phrase and explain its meaning.
On Voeld:
After landing on the planet for the first time:
While traveling up to the Angaran Resistance Base Jaal warns everyone to step carefully as ice and darkness are a deadly combination.
Ryder is impressed with the base setup, and Jaal boasts the angara are a strong people who are only momentarily burdened.
On reaching the first solar heater, Jaal reminds the others they're almost at the base and they'll need to talk to Commander Anjik on arrival.
Jaal greets the two lookouts guarding the pass, and vouches for the aliens he brings to the base.
While wandering around the Resistance base Jaal proclaims he misses the place, as he has friends there.
On the medical wing of the facility a disgruntled Resistance fighter disparages Ryder and hopes Aya dealt with them. Jaal overhears it and retorts the Pathfinder fights for the angara and should be accorded some respect. The Resistance fighter is surprised to see Jaal and the Pathfinder there, and Ryder just takes everything in stride.
Jaal explains the purpose of the base's command center. It's where they track their operatives in the field.
Upon acquisition of the mission Intercepted, Jaal recommends speaking with Olisk.
On first visiting Hjara Station Jaal explains what the place does.
On Kadara:
On Haarfel outside Kadara Slums Jaal makes his displeasure of the planet clear, likening the poisonous water to a festering wound even medicine cannot heal. This irks Ryder enough to suggest if he wants to go back to the Tempest, and Jaal wants to know if it's really an option.
Upon seeing a dead krogan and human on an observation tower south of the Remnant vault entrance in Haarfel, Jaal remarks they came to a violent end.
On approach to the monolith in Sulfur Springs Jaal urges Ryder to help the angara engaged in a skirmish there.
On scanning the cultivated fungi in the Collective Base, Jaal identifies them as kvastyr and explains their nature.
On Elaaden:
After the conclusion of Aspirations, if Barrett moved into his new base and was told about the munitions stockpile there, he talks about taking over other groups. Jaal is still uncertain if he could trust him.
Nomad Banter[]
While driving across a landscape in the Nomad, Jaal may initiate or reply to conversations around certain topics. 

Jaal complains about the Nomad's stiff handling, prompting Ryder to threaten turning the car around.
While talking with Drack:
Jaal has read up on krogan history and asks Drack how often did his people save the rest of the Milky Way species.
Jaal wonders why someone at the end of his life would take a chance with the Initiative. Drack replies aggressively and turns Jaal's words on his own, forcing the angara on the defensive, and later he asks Ryder to intervene.
When Drack admits he's dying and explains his point of view, Jaal finds he respects the old krogan's reasons and tells him it has been an honor to fight by his side.
When Drack inquires where he learned to fight, Jaal essentially lists his entire family as his teachers and claims the Resistance is much more than an army. Asked for his rite of passage, Jaal recounts the time he fell in love with a woman on Aya.
Jaal claims Drack is smarter than he looks, albeit stubborn.
When Drack compares salarians to kett, Jaal disagrees as they don't seem to be worse than the kett judging from the few salarians he knows.
Jaal asks why the Milky Way is called as such. Drack clarifies each race has their own word for it so Jaal inquires for the krogan term.
Having heard the krogan all left the Nexus except for Nakmor Kesh, Jaal asks Drack about it.
Jaal comments about the krogan being the largest of the Initiative species.
When Drack notices angara have large families, Jaal notes it's strength in numbers.
Following the reveals about exaltation, Drack tries to see the upside that there are no children among the kett. Jaal points out they still used to be family.
Drack bursts into laughter about a knock knock joke. Not getting the punchline due to involving the elcor, Jaal muses explaining probably won't help.
Jaal asks about the dinner Drack prepared the previous night. Hearing it's called the "Drack Suprise", Jaal realizes they ate something like it earlier though it tasted different.
While talking with Liam:
Referring to Liam's blue skies to bluer oceans description of Earth, Jaal inquires how to know where one ends and the other begins. He chuckles at the Liam's punchline, deadpanning the angara also have people who aren't funny.
When Liam inquires how the angara kept up morale even with kett everywhere, Jaal tells him they haven't. They simply make do with living under oppression. Jaal tells him he's here to observe the Initiative, not reassure it, and if the Initative doesn't measure up then the angara will make do, again.
Jaal replies he's "27 arbitrary years" old in response to Liam's question about it, further noting it depends on which planet they're on. He asks if age is a big deal among Initiative species.
Jaal declines Liam's offer to trade his karyj (Resistance patch) for a HUSTL patch, as he earned it so he can keep it.
Jaal heard Liam was previously in law enforcement, but thinks he must have been bad at it judging by Liam's stated reasons.
He finds the similarities on observing human and angaran holidays odd when he learns Liam's family simply observed holidays as a means to be together.
When he observes Liam talking to himself a lot, he tells him he can play a part next time.
Jaal notices Liam's fear, and shares the angara have seen the same thing on all Initiative species even as they try hard to conceal it.
He asks if Liam has a favorite world. He thinks humans are very literal when they named their homeworld "Earth", and concedes it's a fair point when Liam points out everyone refers to themselves as "the people" in their own language.
When Liam asks about his favorite planet, Jaal declares Havarl, and finds no more reason to be compelled other than family.
Liam praises his training and starts sharing an anecdote, but stops midway. Jaal is interested to know what the story is.
Jaal doesn't like Aya much because it's mostly bureaucrats. He'd rather have ice or sand "through his crack" than mingle with politicians. When Liam asks if that's a real thing or a failed attempt at human vernacular, Jaal promptly responds with "Fuck over."
Jaal snaps at Liam one time for being used as a cultural test bed. 90% of the time the angara do the same things as the Initiative species and he denies they're mystical "others". When asked why he's so upset, he explains that Dr. Lexi T'Perro gave him a physical examination earlier after he submitted to it voluntarily.
He deems the Nomad impressive as the angara hadn't put much effort in ground vehicles recently. It's because they're losing ground to the kett.
Jaal praises his precise style of combat even if he himself looks completely chaotic.
Jaal asks about his decision to move to Andromeda after two years of training, and is amazed that Liam assumed the new galaxy will simply accommodate him.
Jaal's bewildered about the longer-lived Initiative races, wondering what Drack must have seen in his 1,400 years of existence. Liam tries to tell him the asari can get elitist with their long-term views, though Jaal agrees the angara really don't have the years to understand.
While talking with Vetra:
When she asks him if he lived his entire life under the thumb of the kett, Jaal replies he isn't even sure if they have thumbs.
Jaal asks about her reasons for coming to Heleus, clarifying he means her personally and not generally speaking. As a lot of people came, he supposes it's an impressive reason. He also asks if it was worth it.
He asks if Sid is her only sister. Jaal then explains angara feel strong when they're surrounded by family, and they have large families. He compares it to a wall made of many stones but standing as one. Vetra's reply makes him laugh and he tells her he likes how she thinks.
Jaal observes Vetra fearing her sister will meet her demise, claiming he can see it in her eyes. Vetra doesn't like this kind of conversation, and Jaal dispassionately and belatedly recognizes her reactions.
Jaal clarifies what he sees in Vetra's concern. He tells her about the concept of "dos-ashaan", or noble fear: fearing things that should be feared keeps one alive, therefore it's good. It's the same concept the angara hold when fighting the kett, and the same concept with the Initiative's struggles in Andromeda. Vetra embracing dos-ashaan and not letting it hold her and her sister down takes courage, and Jaal tells her they were courageous to come to Heleus.
Jaal senses the turian doesn't trust her, since he noticed she averts her gaze when he's talking to her. When he learns about her reasons, Jaal tells her directly that he doesn't resent the alien newcomers like her, and in fact he likes what he sees in her so far.
When Vetra asks if they knew about the Nexus, Jaal reveals the angara did, but did not offer to help as their only other experience with outsiders were the hostile kett.
He praises her nimbleness on the battlefield, comparing it to a dancer's.
When Vetra praises his agility, Jaal claims one learns to be quick to beat numerous other siblings to the dinner table.
Jaal reveals he joined the Resistance three years ago in the shadow of her older sister.
Jaal observes her penchant for large weapons, comparing it to the frum-frav: tiny timid creatures that puff up and screech to scare away predators. Vetra thinks he's joking, so he asks if he would lie.
Jaal wants to trade equipment on behalf of the Resistance. Vetra suggests helmets, and Jaal is amenable as long as they compliment angaran eyes.
Jaal is confident he and Vetra have moved on from initial awkward feelings and become better friends. He repeatedly asks her what she does for fun, not realizing their very banter is Vetra's definition of fun. He then muses friendship is hard work.
Jaal recalls knowing only war and occupation growing up.
Jaal complains he frequently sees Peebee staring at him.
Later, he confesses he finds himself looking back.
Jaal reads up on Milky Way history and discloses growing to distrust salarians more and more.
Jaal inquires about the compulsory turian military service.
Jaal reads up on the Krogan Rebellions and declares Vetra's friendship with Drack atypical. Vetra's reply is not what he was expecting.
Further on the topic, Jaal wonders why Vetra's dodging his questions about the genophage and its role in ending the rebellions. Upon hearing the short version of the story, he muses that the krogan are still fighting that war.
When Vetra talks about exaltation, Jaal tells her it simplifies the victims, binding them only to the kett.
Jaal is not taking reveals about exaltation well, rhetorically asking Vetra if she would feel fine in his place.
For every exalted they kill Jaal finds himself wondering who they were, seeing all of them as unmarked graves.
On Eos:
Around Site 1: Promise, when Liam talks about erecting a memorial there Jaal finds it admirable the Initiative kept trying despite the difficult start.
Near the lake in Outland Spire Jaal appreciates the familiarity as he deems a world isn't a home without water.
Jaal tells Ryder the Initiative can have Eos as few angara would come there even without the kett. Ryder reminds him of the Initiative's determination to make it livable.
Jaal hopes the Prodromos colonists don't just work as the worlds need "normal life". Ryder assures him Eos will have holidays once they figure out its seasons.
The angara lost a lot of worlds to the Scourge. Jaal finds it strange to see one more or less reclaimed. Ryder tells him it's a hard world but one can get used to anything given enough effort.
When Ryder claims to the third squadmate they're confident they'll be building cities soon, Jaal's inspired because it's rare to see a real beginning.
Around the Presson Dunes Ryder assures the third squadmate they'll clear the kett off Eos for good. Jaal adds they can break whatever the kett can build.
Jaal declares the angara purpose-build world by world. Ryder replies they're outfitted the best they can be.
Around the rock formations near the Four Giants Jaal shares an angaran legend that claims the rock formations were from the weight of the sky, long before the Scourge. Ryder then declares there's nothing tougher in the long run than water and weather.
On Elaaden:
Jaal confesses it's the first time he has set foot on Elaaden. He deems it has a striking landscape though he doesn't seem to be a fan of the heat.
On approach to Hell's Promise, Jaal remarks the crashed Remnant derelict isn't the only one in Heleus.
On Voeld:
Jaal shares he and many others have never known a world without kett. He claims the Resistance fights so that one day their children may be free.
He shares there were once flower meadows on Voeld, in colors they didn't have names ofr.
Jaal complains about the Nomad's poor maneuverability around corners.
While talking with Cora:
When Cora tells him she likes his rifle, Jaal explains he built its modifications himself and finds it ironic he uses the former kett weapon against them. He named his Lanat "Darav".
On Kadara:
Jaal complains about everything on the planet being "pointy", referring to the often-bumpy ride.
On approach to the wind farm in Varren's Scalp, Jaal asks about the unfamiliar structure.
On approach to Draullir Jaal announces what it means.
On approaching the monolith in Sulfur Springs, Jaal notes it appears to extend underground.
On approach to a prospective outpost site in Sulfur Springs, Jaal reminds Ryder Sloane Kelly holds a grudge against the Initiative and doubts she'll let them settle there.
On approach to a daar in Kurinth's Valley, Jaal reckons they may have decent supplies as the place looks nicer than others.
On closer inspection he grows angry and demands to know why there are dead angara about.
While talking with Liam:
When Liam complains about the smell, Jaal retorts that it will be the Tempest that smells strange once he gets used to things.
Jaal suggests looking for somewhere else to live as many would also prefer it.



