




Galorn

 







Faction
Wildlife


Weapons / Attacks
Melee


Abilities
–


Armor
Normal


Shields
–


Weak Points
Head


The galorn is a quadruped creature greatly resembling a faceless rhinoceros. It does not appear to have eyes, and it appears to have fleshy red growths for a face and tentacles for a mouth (akin to rachni tentacle-beaks). It can be found on Voeld and Havarl; on the latter it can be reliably sighted in the area surrounding the entrance to the Remnant Abyss.
As with several large creatures, upon death the galorn crumbles down instead of leaving a corpse to identify. It may sometimes leave behind Renderable Plates. The only way to scan it is to carefully approach it when the animal is unaware.

Scanner Information[]
Galorn


DATA:
Classification: Mammal
Origin: Andromeda
ANALYSIS:
Immense, hoofed creatures with plates that appear lit, and odd, colorful glands that span their face and jaw. Related to the taurg, galorn charge and headbutt when provoked. 

Capabilities[]
Offensive
The creature can headbutt at melee range, and can rapidly close the distance if its opponent is out of range.

Defensive
The galorn is armored.

Tactics[]
The galorn has no direct countermeasures for long-ranged opponents, and so can be safely dealt with without even getting close to it.
Due to its size it can be brought down with a shotgun even from longer distances.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




