









Garm




Race
Krogan


Type
Organic, Biotic


Faction
Blood Pack


Armament
M-300 Claymore


Abilities
 Berserker Charge Regeneration Barrier Warp


Health
High


Armor
High


Barrier
Very high


Locations
Omega


Garm is a Krogan Battlemaster who leads the Blood Pack on Omega. He is described by Garrus Vakarian as a "freak of nature", able to regenerate faster than most krogan.






“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Garm once fought one-on-one with Garrus, who was going by the alias Archangel during his vigilante stint on Omega. Garm defended himself in what he deemed the longest fight of his life until his men showed up, then chased Garrus over half of Omega but ultimately failed to capture him.
Because the Blood Pack's operations are disrupted by Archangel's team, Garm enters into an alliance with similarly aggrieved parties, Tarak of the Blue Suns and Jaroth of Eclipse, to take down the vigilante once and for all. He doesn't really care about Archangel's views, but his deeds are costing Garm men and making him work for his money. He vows to be the one to personally kill the turian vigilante, as he is the only one of the mercs who fought Archangel in single combat and lived. 
Should the operation to take down Archangel be successful, the three mercenary bosses conspire to overthrow Omega's ruler Aria T'Loak with their combined resources. Jaroth suggested the idea to Garm, and Garm approved of the plan.
The alliance has trapped Archangel to his hideout and killed most of the vigilante's team except for the turian himself. Tarak's plan entails Garm sitting around until the freelancers and Eclipse have done their part, though Garm hates waiting. He doesn't mind freelancers wandering into the Blood Pack's quarters and gruffly answers any inquiries they may have. 
If a young krogan is with a group of freelancers questioning Garm, he wonders why the krogan is following the human who seems to be leading the team, as he should be learning from his own kind. Garm pulls out a shotgun and decapitates a vorcha with it, sending its head flying across the room. Krogan can teach their own how to live and die without fear, and how to put that fear into the hearts of their enemies. The krogan freelancer claims his leader does that and more, and Garm merely accepts his explanation.
Later, the freelancers and Eclipse have been defeated by Archangel and reinforcements disguised as freelancers. Garm and his Blood Pack assault Archangel's hideout through the basement and he successfully breaches his way into the living room. After ordering his goons to rip their enemies to shreds and cover him, Garm goes straight for Archangel upstairs, but gets himself and his cohorts killed instead. 
Prior to his demise Garm was contacted by fellow Blood Pack leader Kalusk requesting extra men for Salamul's mining operation on Tarith because his vorcha kept getting lost in the planet's thick fog. Due to the Archangel operation however, Garm had no vorcha to spare.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Garm is armed with a M-300 Claymore Heavy Shotgun. Like all krogan battlemasters, Garm can use biotic powers such as Warp, which makes him dangerous at range.

Defensive
Garm has strong armour and an even stronger biotic barrier. He also possesses standard krogan regeneration and the krogan charge attack. He can restore his barrier to full strength after it has been depleted, but he can only do this once his armor has been completely destroyed.

Tactics[]
Garm goes straight for Garrus on the second floor of his hideout, but once there, he can be distracted from Garrus if a squadmate or Shepard gets close to him.
Flashbang Grenade can disable Garm's biotics as well as his ability to restore his barrier; it can also knock him down once he is fully unprotected.
Standard tactics against krogan enemies such as disabling or halting health regeneration with powers such as Incinerate, Cryo Blast, or Warp work equally well against Garm.
Stasis is an excellent way to instantly disable Garm, protected or not; this is also a great emergency measure to stop him from harming Garrus.
The Arc Projector works on Garm as well as it works on all krogan enemies: as long as he is not charging, it will stun and drop him to the ground whether he is protected or not; his health regeneration will also be permanently stopped.
Trivia[]
Mass Effect: Paragon Lost's production notes indicate that fellow Blood Pack member Brood's ship is labeled "Garm's Way".[1]
In Norse mythology, Garmr or Garm, is the dog associated with Ragnarök, and is described as a blood-stained watchdog guarding the gates of Hell.
References[]

↑ Paragon Lost Behind The Scenes Blu-Ray extra, at around 20:33




Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




