









Garoth
Council Petitioner

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
George Szilagyi


Appearances
Mass Effect


Garoth is a human loitering in the Citadel Tower. He appears to be waiting to bring a petition before the Council, and seems to be worried for someone.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Garoth is worried about his brother, Willem, who is the captain of the MSV Majesty, a small trading vessel that went missing some time ago in the Attican Traverse. He reached out to Synthetic Insights, Ltd. in Noveria, Garoth's employers, if they had any information on his freighter's whereabouts, but the request was only forwarded to Administrator Anoleis and the investigation was left pending.
After gaining Spectre status, Commander Shepard can ask about Garoth's problem. He requests that Shepard search for his brother as a favor to him. He has no money to pay for the effort, else he would've hired a recovery team already, and he figures humans should stick together for mutual aid. He grows angry if Shepard refuses to help, though he quickly provides his brother's last known coordinates if the Commander changes their mind.
If Shepard searches for the MSV Majesty, the wrecked starship is discovered near Xawin, having been attacked by privateers. Shepard may check in with Garoth before landing on Xawin to inform him about the discovery. As long as no body has been found, Garoth remains hopeful that his brother is alive and implores the Commander not to give up the search.
Once Shepard travels to Xawin, however, the Commander eventually finds Willem's body at the privateers' base. When the Commander gives him the news, Garoth is devastated. He thanks Shepard for bringing the truth of what happened and reasons that however difficult, the truth is always better than hoping in vain. He then leaves to make the funeral arrangements.

Trivia[]
George Szilagyi, who voices Garoth, also voices Ish, Captain Kirrahe, and Ochren. Before working on Mass Effect, Szilagyi provided the voices for Cao Zeng, Minister Sheng, and Turnkey Shiji in BioWare's Jade Empire.



