









Garret Bryson
Alliance Scientist

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
David Sobolov


Appearances
Mass Effect 3


Dr. Garret Bryson is a Systems Alliance scientist. He is the head of Task Force Aurora, a group created to investigate ancient legends about the Reapers. He regards his work to be a mission to find the truth, taking it as a challenge to prove something exists when the rest of the galaxy says otherwise. His mindset came about on the fact that as late as 2148 - within his lifetime - some humans still believed aliens to be a myth.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Commander Shepard meets Dr. Bryson in his lab on the Citadel following an order from Admiral Hackett. Bryson introduces the Spectre to his group and their mandated mission, and is about to explain a breakthrough in their research when he is shot in the chest by his assistant Derek Hadley.
With Bryson dead and Hadley incapacitated shortly afterward, Shepard is forced to pick up the pieces of the doctor's investigation with EDI's assistance. Video logs depict correspondence between Bryson and Hackett, where the doctor reveals they have been researching the Leviathan of Dis, a Reaper corpse discovered by the batarians. He found it noteworthy that there is something that was able to kill the Reaper long ago, dubbing it the "real" Leviathan. Pursuing this lead, Bryson later tells Hackett that the Reapers themselves have been following his field teams as if they were looking for Leviathan themselves, which leads him to formally request assistance in the matter, which has arrived in the form of Shepard's team.
Other logs in the lab indicate Bryson took precautions to safeguard his research. He hid decryption keys "close to his heart", scribbling the numbers in one of his daughter Ann Bryson's childhood drawings. Still more logs follow other Reaper-killer leads; some, like rachni activity, end up as dead ends, and others, like creature sightings, turn out to be worth pursuing.
Ann Bryson, after her rescue from Namakli, later states that Shepard's work in uncovering the Reapers validated years of her father's work. She describes her father as a distant man who was also extremely passionate about his work, and she regrets that their last talk was a petty argument over filing some specimens. She also adds that he loved working in the field -- so much that he showed up to her graduation in his field outfit -- and that he would have hated dying in his lab. 

Trivia[]
David Sobolov, the voice of Dr. Bryson, also played two characters, Czibor and Hessarian, in another BioWare title, Dragon Age: Origins.
See Also[]
Reports of the Conspiracy Accountability League, by Bernard Plim.



