




Garvug

Region
Milky Way / Vallhallan Threshold / Paz





Planet View


Orbital Distance
4.0 AU


Orbital Period
6.1 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
1.72


Radius
6,200 km


Day Length
27.0 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
1.2 atm


Surface Temp
−30 °C (5 at the equator)


Surface Gravity
1.0 g


Mass
0.938 Earth Masses


Satellites
>1


Location: Milky Way / Vallhallan Threshold / Paz System /  First planet


Colony

Species
Krogan


Capital
Dhazil


Colony Founded
354 CE



Prerequisite: Tali: Treason (Mass Effect 2)

Prerequisite: Priority: The Citadel II (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Missions
3 Mineral Deposits
4 Search and Rescue
5 Additional Information
6 See Also
7 Trivia


Description[]
In 354 CE, Garvug was considered a "bargain world," given to the krogan to placate them because no one else wanted to live on such a frozen rock. Technically a life-bearing world, Garvug had a small farm belt around its equator and well-insulated marine life in its seas.
By the turn of the century, the krogan had completely adapted, breeding hundreds of younglings per family in vast underground bunkers. By the turn of the next century, Garvug's narrow strips of coral reef had been destroyed by overfishing and pollutants, and excess krogan took to the stars to find another planet to consume. Garvug was treated as an object lesson by the Citadel Council -- the krogan could not be trusted to check their own numbers.
Today, Garvug is a frozen wasteland, home to corporate ecoengineering efforts trying to implement sustainable agri- and aqua-culture practices. Krogan and vorcha packs are a constant threat, and the corporations pay mercenaries well to keep their operations safe.

Missions[]
Mission: Valhallan Threshold: Prothean Data Drives
Mineral Deposits[]
Initial Scanner Result: Good



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

Medium

7,500


Platinum

Medium

7,000


Iridium

Medium

6,500


Element Zero

Medium

7,500

Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Artifact: Prothean Data Disks
Additional Information[]
Other known cities on Garvug include Ikrit and Jundrag.
Corporations have instigated a coup against the ruling Clan Hailot in exchange for unrestricted access to the planet. Binary Helix and Guanghui Solutions seek to repair the planet while Sonax Industries want certain mining rights, and these three are the main forces opposing the Garvug State Forces. 
After six months of guerilla warfare and failing to capture or kill the deposed leader Hailot Wrund, the corporations announce a withdrawal of forces from the planet. It is soon discovered that this is a ploy to lure the rebels into complacency: once the guerillas have retaken Dhazil the corporations resume military operations, using precision strikes to keep assets and infrastructure intact as much as possible. Most of the rebels, including Wrund, have been killed.
It later comes to light that the corporations instigated the war because of a discovered cache of Prothean technology. The ensuing legal fallout triggers sweeping upheavals to the complicit parties, particularly Sonax Industries (renamed Kore by parent company Umsung Holdings).

See Also[]
Cerberus Daily News
"Garvug Invaded by Corporate Forces" storyline
Trivia[]
In the French versions of Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3, as well as the Polish version of Mass Effect 3, Garvug is named "Gorvug".
Garvug is a mission location in the N7 HQ Galaxy at War mini-game for Mass Effect 3.



