









Gatatog Uvenk




Race
Krogan


Type
Organic, Biotic


Faction
Clan Gatatog


Armament
M-300 Claymore


Abilities
 Berserker Charge Regeneration Barrier Warp


Health
High


Armor
High


Barrier
High


Locations
Tuchanka



“Aliens don't know strength. My followers are true krogan. Everything about Grunt is a lie.”
Gatatog Uvenk is a Krogan Battlemaster and the leader of Clan Gatatog.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Uvenk is a traditionalist who opposes reforms to krogan society initiated by Urdnot Wrex if he is the Clan Urdnot leader, claiming that they will just weaken the krogan. When Commander Shepard accompanies Grunt to take the Rite of Passage on Tuchanka, Uvenk insults Grunt and vehemently opposes allowing a tank-bred krogan to join their ranks. 
When the Urdnot leader is not swayed by his protests, Uvenk goes to the shaman and protests against allowing Grunt to undertake the rite. Shepard is able to make him back down after determining that they are capable of acting as Grunt's Krantt, either by humbling Uvenk with words or a headbutt in the krogan fashion. Uvenk resentfully withdraws his denial for Grunt's Rite for the moment but threatens to settle the matter elsewhere.
Upon completion of the rite and if Grunt kills the Thresher Maw, Uvenk acknowledges Grunt's unquestionable strength and wishes to acquire him as a trophy in order to increase his own stature. He offers Grunt a place in his dying clan on several conditions but Grunt rejects his offer, not wanting to be used as a tool by Uvenk. However, if Grunt does not kill the Maw, then Uvenk merely tells Grunt that he is not worthy of joining a clan because he is impure. Regardless of Shepard's actions, Grunt attacks Uvenk and five of his bodyguards and Uvenk dies in the ensuing battle. Regardless of who is the Clan Urdnot leader, he thanks Shepard for dealing with the irritating Uvenk.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Uvenk fights with a M-300 Claymore Heavy Shotgun at short range. He also uses biotic powers such as Warp.
Defensive
Uvenk has standard krogan health regeneration and charge, in addition to a biotic Barrier and armor. He can regenerate his Barrier if left alone long enough, and if his layer of armor has been stripped.

Tactics[]
Uvenk will not immediately charge Shepard as most krogan would. Instead he will hold back and use Warp while his Gatatog Warriors charge Shepard's position.
Once his subordinates have been dispatched he will charge on his own at which point he can be rather easily overwhelmed.
See also: Grunt: Rite of Passage
Trivia[]
Gatatog Uvenk is one of the few krogan who wears the Battlemaster Armor manufactured by the Geth Armory.
Uvenk is voiced by Michael Dorn.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




