




Gei Hinnom

Region
Milky Way / Hades Nexus / Sheol





Planet View


Orbital Distance
0.83 AU


Orbital Period
0.8 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.893


Radius
2,379 km


Day Length
0.8 Earth Years


Atm. Pressure
Trace


Surface Temp
35 °C (habitable zone) 108 °C/−120 °C (uninhabitable)


Surface Gravity
0.1 g


Mass
0.014 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Hades Nexus / Sheol System /  First planet


Colony

Species
Human


Population
11,503



Prerequisite: Star Chart from Baria Frontiers store or Project Firewalker: Volcano Station and Horizon (mission) (Mass Effect 2)

Prerequisite: Priority: Rannoch (Mass Effect 3)

Note: Downloading the Firewalker Pack renders the star chart from the Baria Frontiers store obsolete. However, in addition to Project Firewalker: Volcano Station, Horizon needs to be completed to unlock the Sheol system.

Contents

1 Description
2 Missions
3 Assignments
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Search and Rescue
6 Trivia


Description[]
A nearly atmosphere-less, tidally-locked planet orbiting a red dwarf star, Gei Hinnom was the first place human explorers discovered a dedicated Prothean burial ground. While a few sites were saved for posterity, Eldfell-Ashland Mining successfully lobbied to scout the rest of the planet for element zero, and soon was embroiled in a scandal. Mining teams were looting grave sites, searching for eezo and other treasures, and many got rich off the so-called "cemetery business."
While EAM officially brought a stop to the looting, its mining teams remain on the planet, prospecting the unclaimed territory and taking their ore to the Pamyat system for refining.
TRAVEL ADVISORY: Armed conflicts have broken out between miners and scientists staking claims to Prothean ruins. Visitors are advised to employ security while exploring unknown regions of the planet.

Missions[]
Mission: Hades Nexus: Prothean Sphere
Assignments[]
Assignment: N7: Quarian Crash Site
Mineral Deposits[]
Initial Scanner Result: Rich



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

High

16,700


Platinum

Low

4,900


Iridium

Medium

7,200


Element Zero

Medium

6,300

Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Artifact: Prothean Sphere
Trivia[]
In keeping with the cluster and system theme naming, the name "Gei Hinnom" literally means "The valley of Hinnom" in Hebrew but is translated as "Hell" in the New Testament of the Bible.
Although described as having little to no atmosphere, local plant and animal life is present. A shore party is also capable of navigating the surface without special equipment.



