









Geth Rocket Drone




Race
Geth


Type
Synthetic


Armament
Rocket Launcher


Abilities
None


Health
Moderate


Shields
Very High


Locations
Virmire, Casbin, Rayingri, Antibaar, Maji, Solcrum


Geth Rocket Drones are combat support drones employed by the geth to support their ground forces. Drones are typically seen in areas where the geth have a heavy presence, or are used to defend key areas or geth bases. They typically hover in the air, although if close to ground level they can use their tripod legs to skim the surface. These red drones are armed with a rocket launcher, compared to the Geth Assault Drones that share a similar chassis but colored black and are armed with machine guns.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




These drones are among the units deployed in the geth incursion into the Armstrong Nebula. 
Saren Arterius' base on Virmire has a sizeable fleet of these drones for defense on the outskirts and the interior. Commander Shepard can chance upon a group refueling that, if destroyed, ensures Captain Kirrahe's survival in the far side of the base.

Tactics[]
Geth Rocket Drones are armed with a rocket launcher that, like the Advanced Rocket Drone, can do incredible damage that bypasses shields, and can kill in just a few hits. These Drones are typically found with large concentrations of geth troops, usually in open areas. Because the Drones like to flank you, keep on the move, and avoid getting too attached to the cover that you are behind. Because they are also synthetic enemies, using tech abilities like Overload and Sabotage is very effective against them, especially in large groups.
As against most enemies that can bypass shields to do a lot of damage, the Immunity talent is very useful against Geth Rocket Drones. If Shepard's class doesn't have access to the ability, use a squadmate who does to take point and draw fire.
Because Geth Rocket Drones are also flying enemies, most biotic powers won't work against them. Only powers such as Warp or Stasis have any effect, so if you are going up against these enemies, make sure to bring along a tech-savvy squadmate.
Quite a few of these enemies can be encountered while in the Mako; however, exiting the Mako to combat them might be a good idea. A direct hit from the Mako's main gun can do a lot of damage, but considering how hard it is to accurately hit a moving target with the main gun, using the Mako's machine gun might be a better option. If you are combating these drones in the Mako, make sure to keep an eye on the vehicle's shields, as they will take damage, mainly from other enemies if they are around.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





