






This article is about is about the enemy in Mass Effect. For other uses, see Geth Turret.








Geth Turret




Race
Geth


Type
Synthetic


Armament
Mass Accelerator Cannon


Abilities
Unknown


Health
Very High


Shields
High


Locations
Noveria, Casbin, Maji, Citadel


Geth Turrets or Geth Heavy Turrets are turrets that are deployed by the geth to reinforce their positions or defend key areas. Geth Turrets are comparable to other turrets but appear differently.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Geth Turrets are encountered during the mission to Noveria. Shepard and the squad have to fight through several turrets in order to get to Peak 15 from Port Hanshan.
During a separate geth incursion into the Armstrong Nebula, Shepard and the squad have to fight through a few Turrets in order to destroy the various geth bases that have been established in the cluster.
Geth Turrets are also encountered during Shepard and the squad's ascent up the Citadel exhaust plain with the additional protection of multiple geth barriers.

Tactics[]
Geth Turrets possess very high health and six bars of shielding, making them very durable. As is the case with all ME enemies, their shields regenerate over time.
Fighting them in the Mako is relatively easy because they're large stationary targets, and it only takes a couple of shots from the main gun and several machine gun bursts to destroy them. While their missiles are quite damaging to Mako, they don't travel very fast and thus can be easily dodged. However, you will get less experience if you do that.
If you are going to fight them on foot, then keep on the move because just one shot will usually kill you. Also because turrets have a habit of firing so that multiple shots that all impact around the same time, try to approach one turret at a time. The best way to fight them on foot is to whittle them down while you are inside the Mako, then exit and destroy them on foot for the experience bonus.
Turrets can be overheated with Sabotage, stopping them from firing for about ten seconds and allowing you to attack them with impunity.
If you have Master Hacking, it is possible to hack one of the turrets and turn it against the others. You will get the same experience as if it was an "on-foot" kill.
Also note that because the Geth Turrets are stationary targets, kinetic-based biotics are useless against them. Only powers like Warp are effective.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





