






This article is about the geth enemy unit. For the playable multiplayer class, see Geth Hunter Infiltrator.

Geth Hunters are a geth subtype in Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3.

Contents

1 Mass Effect 2

1.1 Capabilities
1.2 Tactics


2 Mass Effect 3

2.1 Capabilities
2.2 Tactics




Mass Effect 2[]







Geth Hunter




Race
Geth


Type
Synthetic


Faction
Geth


Armament
M-27 Scimitar


Abilities
 Tactical Cloak


Health
Moderate


Shields
High


Locations
Haestrom, Alarei, Heretic Station, Canalus, Aite


Hunters possess cloaking devices, shields and shotguns. Save for their shorter stature, their appearance is very similar to Geth Destroyers, Geth Juggernauts and Geth Primes.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
The Geth Hunter's combat behaviour is to close in and eliminate opponents with its shotgun. Their stealth devices mean they are capable of catching opponents off guard, particularly in the middle of combat where more visible threats are likely to be targeted first. However, the luminous 'eye' is still always partially visible, as is their bodily outline. Because of their height, Hunters are able to shoot over low cover at close range.
Defensive
The Geth Hunter's strong shielding and moderate health mean it can withstand a considerable amount of fire before destruction. Like other Mass Effect 2 enemies they will take additional damage from headshots.

Tactics[]
Hunters usually lead a group of Geth Troopers. Unlike Troopers, they move slightly faster and will try to advance on the squad, therefore it's a good idea to have the entire squad focus the Hunter before it gets too close.
When a Hunter is cloaked, squadmates will not be able to fire on them even if manually ordered to do so; in addition, both squadmate powers and Shepard's can't "lock on" to them, and squadmates won't auto-cast powers on them. Powers will still work against Hunters, but they need to be "aimed" manually with the crosshair right on the Hunter's silhouette and without any other enemy highlighted in the HUD that would interfere with targeting.
Hunters tend to wait a few seconds before they fire, somewhat squandering their ambush advantage.
Downing a Hunter's shields will usually result in the loss of its invisibility though not always.
Because Hunters have strong shielding, Overload, Energy Drain, Disruptor Ammo and other anti-shield tactics are important. The Geth Plasma Shotgun is one of the best weapons for taking out Hunters quickly, especially with the charged shots.
Hunters have high health for geth units so disabling them with biotics or freezing attacks once their shields are down to make them more vulnerable to gunfire not only prevents them from closing to lethal ranges but makes killing them faster and more ammo-efficient.
Hunters are effective targets for AI Hacking as once hacked they will quite effectively destroy lesser geth units with their shotguns. The Hunter will not use Tactical Cloak while hacked, but this is usually a good thing as it will distract other geth and hopefully soften up the Hunter making it easier to take out once you no longer need its services.
Hunters, unlike most enemies, are often not immediately distracted by Combat Drones summoned at them, especially while they are still cloaked; instead, they remain focused on closing with their original targets. Even when they are distracted by drones, Hunters, like most shotgun-wielding opponents, are capable of dispatching attacking drones very quickly. Combat Drones do not detect or attack cloaked Hunters.
The Arc Projector's shots can automatically lock on to cloaked Hunters and bounce to them as well. The Arc Projector is particularly effective against Hunters on any difficulty as it deals heavy damage to shields and additional bonus damage to synthetic targets on top of that, and its shots have secondary effects that include stunning synthetic targets for several seconds.
The ML-77 Missile Launcher's missiles can acquire cloaked Hunters as targets and seek them.
Mass Effect 3[]







Geth Hunter




Faction
Geth


Type
Synthetic


Armament
Geth Plasma Shotgun


Abilities
 Tactical Cloak


Health
Moderate


Shields
Moderate


Locations
Rannoch, Geth Dreadnought, Armax Arsenal Arena


Geth Hunters return as enemies in Mass Effect 3. They now sport a primarily black color scheme, have red lights and "eyes", and are smaller - now the same height as ordinary geth infantry. Hunters are equipped with Geth Plasma Shotguns.


Capabilities[]
Offensive
Like in Mass Effect 2, Geth Hunters are capable of cloaking.  Unlike in Mass Effect 2, their "flashlights" no longer shine when cloaked, making them more difficult to locate.  In addition to using their shotguns, Geth Hunters are now capable of making a surprisingly effective melee attack that can stagger the player back, leaving them vulnerable to a point-blank shotgun blast. Their shotguns can also stun you, so if you find yourself unable to fire, or use powers, chances are, one of these Geth Hunters has gotten close to you.
Defensive
Geth Hunters have a moderate amount of health and shielding, which can regenerate over time.  Like other geth units, they can dodge attacks by hopping to the side. Geth Hunters tend to cloak and run away in order to recharge their shields.

Tactics[]
When cloaked, Hunters are nearly invisible, with only their outline being visible. While in stealth, they cannot be targeted by powers unless you fire upon them with weapons first. The Javelin's scoped mode can highlight them in purple, as well as Hunter Mode (in red). The enhanced thermal scope mods for assault and sniper rifles can also reveal cloaked Hunters.
While their shotguns are powerful at range, it is still less dangerous to attack them from afar rather than closer to them. They can also use a melee attack that will deplete weaker shields in one go and stun you. This gives a Hunter a free shot on you and can deplete all of your health, so close range combat against them is highly inadvisable.
A well placed Overload can destroy the Hunters' shielding, and since they need their shielding to cloak this ultimately eliminates their stealth option. This effectively turns a Hunter into nothing more than a Geth Trooper with a shotgun, making it easy to deal with. Depleting a Hunter's shields also removes its cloaked movement speed bonus.
Hunters tend to decloak when they are right on top of you. To minimize damage a player should roll backward and backpedal away from the Hunter to create more distance and reduce damage from shotgun blasts.
Hunters will almost always fire twice, the first shot stripping away your shields, and the second to drop all your health. If a Hunter is close enough, it is not uncommon for them to melee you first, which will destroy your shields, then fire twice, killing you. Even worse, both the shotgun blasts and melees can stagger you, preventing you from responding.
Geth Hunters move more rapidly while cloaked on higher difficulties.
A good sense of perception is critical for spotting Hunters. It is best to stick to an area where you have a clear line of sight on them and they need time to reach you. This also means you are much more likely to take them out, before they take you down. A sniper rifle will deal with them very quickly, though you need to make sure your shots are on target, which is difficult when all you can see is their outline.
Hunters will very often walk straight towards the cover you are in, which can create opportunities for grab instant-kills. This also makes you briefly invulnerable to all hostiles while doing this.
A good tactic in Multiplayer for dealing with Hunters on gold is to use grenades, such as the Arc Grenade, or AoE tech powers/combos such as Energy Drain or Tech Bursts to take out their shields, and then use a high powered sniper rifle to headshot them when they are knocked back/dodge away.
The N7 Valiant in the hands of a damage maxed geth Infiltrator can be deadly, and resolves the fact that excess damage to shields does not carry over to health on higher difficulties. With Tactical Cloak on Gold, one headshot can remove the shields and the next kills.
Disruptor Ammo is also a good choice, as the stunning effects will stop even cloaked Hunters from moving, allowing for easy headshots.
Hunters are less likely to dodge attacks if staggered by gunfire, if you are in close proximity, or if they are focused on another target.
Certain melee attacks such as the krogan charge are very tricky to aim at a cloaked Hunter, since they cannot lock on like normal.
A Shadow Strike fully upgraded for damage plus Tactical Cloak damage bonus plus Sword Mastery power damage bonuses will instantly kill a Geth Hunter even on full shields and health.
The Flamer power is incredibly effective at revealing entire squads of Hunters. Said power can be used for up to 8 seconds, or cut short, and Hunters only need to be hit by the slightest flame to disrupt their cloak, making them vulnerable to further punishment. The only downside is the Flamer's short range.
The electrical shock attacks from Combat Drone, Defense Drone (single-player only), and Sentry Turret are all quite useful defenses against Hunter flanking attacks. Combat Drones can detect, pursue, and attack even cloaked hunters. While Defense Drone won't attack cloaked Hunters, it will the moment a Hunter decloaks, stunning it. Additionally, any of the chaining shock attacks from Combat Drone or Defense Drone will chain to any Hunters in range, invisible or not.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist



Mass Effect 3 Enemies


CAT6

Brooks • CAT6 Heavy • CAT6 Sniper • CAT6 Specialist • Clone • Disruption Drone


Cerberus

Adjutant • Assault Trooper • Atlas • Centurion • Combat Engineer • Dragoon • Dr. Eva • Guardian • Kai Leng • Legion Assassin • Nemesis • Phantom • Rampart Mech • Turret


Collectors

Abomination (Possessed) • Collector Captain (Possessed) • Collector Trooper (Possessed) • Collector Web • Praetorian (Possessed) • Scion (Possessed) • Seeker Swarm (Plague)


Geth

Combat Drone • Geth Bomber • Geth Hunter • Geth Prime • Geth Pyro • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Trooper • Geth Turret


Reapers

Banshee • Brute • Cannibal • Harvester • Husk • Marauder • Ravager • Swarmer




