






This article is about is about the enemy in Mass Effect 3. For other uses, see Geth Turret.








Geth Turret




Faction
Geth


Type
Synthetic


Armament
Pulse Weapon


Abilities
None


Shields
Very Low


Locations
Rannoch, Geth Dreadnought


Geth Turrets are an enemy unit in Mass Effect 3. Geth Primes deploy Geth Turrets to serve as fire support on the battlefield.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Geth Turrets function more like the powers Sentry Turret or Geth Turret than those deployed by the Cerberus Combat Engineer. Geth Turrets have a moderate rate of fire and do moderate damage; however, if left alive for an extended period of time, it can easily kill unwary players. A Geth Prime can have up to two turrets active at a time, and it can summon them even through intervening terrain, which can easily catch enemies in unavoidable crossfire.
Defensive
Geth Turrets have only a weak layer of shields and no other protection. Their shields will regenerate over time. Turrets have timed life and eventually deactivate spontaneously, which they will do shortly after the Prime that summoned them is destroyed.

Tactics[]
One should eliminate the Turrets as quickly as possible. While they do not inflict a large amount of damage per shot, the damage can quickly add up. This is especially true if you are being pummeled by multiple enemies.
A powerful weapon or high level tech powers are very effective, capable of taking these small turrets out in one go.
When a Geth Prime sticks its arm out, you should do an immediate scan of your surroundings as Geth Primes can use these to flank you.
Turrets can be hacked with Sabotage, though they are so fragile that they won't last long under enemy fire.
Using Overload with the chain evolution on a Geth Prime will quickly dispatch the Geth Turrets and Combat Drones it has deployed.
On certain maps, Turrets will consistently be placed on top of cover by Primes. This allows them to shoot at players attempting to hide from the Primes in that piece of cover, which can be devastating on higher difficulties.
On lower difficulties, an un-upgraded Energy Drain will instantly destroy it.
If used against Geth Turrets, Tactical Scan will kill them instead of causing its normal effects.
Stasis has no effect on Turrets even though they are not armored.
Much like other weak, "summoned" enemies like Swarmers, Geth Turrets don't count as true enemies for the purposes of triggering "on kill" bonuses of certain powers. They can also persist after the end of a round in multiplayer, though they will self-destruct quickly once the Prime that created them is destroyed.


Mass Effect 3 Enemies


CAT6

Brooks • CAT6 Heavy • CAT6 Sniper • CAT6 Specialist • Clone • Disruption Drone


Cerberus

Adjutant • Assault Trooper • Atlas • Centurion • Combat Engineer • Dragoon • Dr. Eva • Guardian • Kai Leng • Legion Assassin • Nemesis • Phantom • Rampart Mech • Turret


Collectors

Abomination (Possessed) • Collector Captain (Possessed) • Collector Trooper (Possessed) • Collector Web • Praetorian (Possessed) • Scion (Possessed) • Seeker Swarm (Plague)


Geth

Combat Drone • Geth Bomber • Geth Hunter • Geth Prime • Geth Pyro • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Trooper • Geth Turret


Reapers

Banshee • Brute • Cannibal • Harvester • Husk • Marauder • Ravager • Swarmer




