






This article is about the power in Mass Effect 2. For other similarly-named abilities, see Shield Boost (disambiguation). For the shield-restoring tech power in Mass Effect 3, see Defense Matrix.


Geth Shield Boost is a tech power in Mass Effect 2.


Co-opt geth shield technology to deflect attack damage.

Power Ranks[]
Rank 1 - You can briefly reinforce your kinetic barrier with a high-energy geth shield that absorbs a large amount of damage.
Recharge Time: 12.00 seconds
Duration: 60.00 seconds
Shield Strength: +25.00% of maximum shields
Rank 2 - You can briefly reinforce your kinetic barrier with a high-energy geth shield that absorbs a large amount of damage.
Recharge Time: 12.00 seconds
Duration: 60.00 seconds
Shield Strength: +50.00% of maximum shields
Rank 3 - You can briefly reinforce your kinetic barrier with a high-energy geth shield that absorbs a large amount of damage.
Recharge Time: 12.00 seconds
Duration: 60.00 seconds
Shield Strength: +75.00% of maximum shields

Rank 4
Evolves Geth Shield Boost into one of the following options:

Heavy Geth Shield Boost[]
The shield's increased strength enables it to absorb impacts from even heavy weapons.
Recharge Time: 12.00 seconds
Duration: 60.00 seconds
Shield Strength: +100.00% of maximum shields
Improved Geth Shield Boost[]
Re-routing the shield generator into your weapons' power source can boost their damage for the duration of the shield.
Recharge Time: 12.00 seconds
Duration: 60.00 seconds
Shield Strength: +75.00% of maximum shields
Weapon Damage: +10.00%
Player Notes[]
Geth Shield Boost is not affected by the two Geth Shield Strength upgrades; those upgrades only affect Legion's base shields.
The Geth Shield Boost is extremely effective when making dashes over open ground. Even at its lowest level, using this power will effectively restore your shields if they have been depleted. However, be aware that damage to your health does not recover from this, and should your shields go down before you are able to regenerate normally, your health will still be compromised.
Geth Shield Boost is functionally the same as Fortification and Barrier, and differs only slightly from them in its Improved evolution.
Improved Geth Shield Boost is one of the few ways for some classes to passively buff their weapon damage through the use of powers other than with an ammo power. The 10% weapon damage boost is additive.
Like Fortification and Barrier (but not Tech Armor), Geth Shield Boost is also one of the few powers in Mass Effect 2 that can be used without interrupting Shepard when storming.
Geth Shield Boost does receive bonuses from certain tech research upgrades that can improve its duration and reduce its recharge time.
Most geth enemies possess a version of this power that enables them to full restore their shields after they have been depleted. They can only do this once in most cases, but it's still a good idea to disable or fully destroy any geth enemies outright to prevent them from recharging their shields like this. The tech and biotic ability suppression effect of Flashbang Grenade can also disable enemy geth shield boosts for a good chunk of time.
Unlocking Legion's Geth Shield Boost (on completion of Legion: A House Divided) can create the conundrum that Legion will constantly reactivate it during battles even if Squad Power Use is disabled, making Legion less likely to use its other powers or be able to use them on demand. The only way to have a loyal Legion but avoid the automatic use of the shield boost is to reset Legion's powers using the Advanced Training terminal at the Shadow Broker's Base (requires either Lair of the Shadow Broker DLC or Legendary Edition) and invest no points in Geth Shield Boost.
Availability[]
Shepard via Advanced Training
Legion (Loyalty Power)
See also[]
Defense Matrix


Mass Effect 2 Powers


Ammo

Armor-Piercing Ammo • Cryo Ammo • Disruptor Ammo • Incendiary Ammo • Shredder Ammo • Warp Ammo


Biotic

Barrier • Charge • Dominate • Pull • Reave • Shockwave • Singularity • Slam • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Adrenaline Rush • Concussive Shot • Flashbang Grenade • Fortification • Inferno Grenade • Shadow Strike


Tech

AI Hacking • Combat Drone • Cryo Blast • Energy Drain • Geth Shield Boost • Incinerate • Neural Shock • Overload • Tactical Cloak • Tech Armor


Player only

Assault Mastery • Biotic Mastery • Combat Mastery • Defender • Operative • Tech Mastery • Unity


Squadmate Class

Ardat Yakshi • Asari Justicar • Asari Scientist • Cerberus Officer • Cerberus Operative • Turian Rebel • Drell Assassin • Geth Infiltrator • Krogan Berserker • Master Thief • Mercenary Veteran • Quarian Machinist • Salarian Scientist • Subject Zero




