







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.











Geth Cannon




Race
Geth


Type
Cannon


Faction
Geth


Armament
Mass Accelerator Cannon


Abilities
None


Health
Very High


Locations
Aite


The Geth Cannon is a weapon included in the armament of geth starships. At some point, a crashed geth ship on the planet Aite was discovered by Cerberus. The ship became Prometheus Station and provided geth subjects for Project Overlord. After the project went wrong, the Overlord VI gained control of Prometheus Station's cannon and used it to defend the ship from Commander Shepard and the squad.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
It is a massive cannon that is capable of destroying the M-44 Hammerhead in just one hit. The cannon is powerful and should be avoided at all costs.
Defensive
It possesses high level of health and is protected by a shield that is powered externally. The shield must be taken down before the turret itself can be targeted.

Tactics[]
Because the Cannon can destroy the Hammerhead in one hit, it is advisable to keep on the move. Use the red targeting lines on the ground to keep track of where it is going to shoot. This shot can take down one of the external generator's shields in one hit, but if you are too close, the Hammerhead will be destroyed or damaged. Stay still just long enough for the Cannon to lock on, then use the boosters to jet away.
Once you have the shield down, use the Hammerhead's missiles to destroy the Cannon once and for all. Just make sure to keep moving in order to avoid the Cannon's blast radius.



Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




