









Geth Destroyer




Race
Geth


Type
Synthetic


Armament
Geth Pulse Shotgun


Abilities
 Carnage Berserker Charge


Health
Moderate


Shields
Very High


Locations
Eden Prime, Therum, Noveria, Feros, Virmire, Ilos, the Citadel, Eletania, Rayingri, Solcrum, Pinnacle Station


Geth Destroyers are one of the larger and more dangerous forms of geth infantry, frequently encountered wherever there is a notable concentration of geth. They are more durable and deadly than most geth infantry, and should be handled with caution.

Contents

1 Mass Effect

1.1 Legendary Edition
1.2 Tactics


2 Mass Effect 2

2.1 Capabilities
2.2 Tactics




Mass Effect[]
The Geth Destroyer is a fearsome enemy, standing eleven feet tall. Their armor is dark grey with a yellow stripe down the middle of the chest, and they have a bright blue 'flashlight' eye. The Destroyer carries a Geth Pulse Shotgun, and possesses strong health and shielding.

Legendary Edition[]
The Destroyer has a small redesign as with the other large infantry platforms: three smaller flashlight eyes, removed left shoulderpad, and a slightly lankier build. Other than that, its behavior and tactics are the same.

Tactics[]
Geth Destroyers possess four to six bars of shielding depending on location and difficulty. As is the case with all Mass Effect enemies, it will regenerate over time. As with most synthetics, their health cannot do the same. They will try to flank you whenever possible but don't use cover as often as other geth troops.
When attacking, the Destroyer will slowly advance as it fires, occasionally launch a highly damaging Carnage, then charge and close in for a powerful melee attack. Keep it at a distance with Sledgehammer Rounds or Throw. When the Destroyer charges, Lift will send it flying overhead and disable it for a few seconds when it lands; it can also launch it over an edge for an instant-kill. Because they are synthetic, Neural Shock is useless against them and is unable to stop their charging.
Because they don't have any secondary weapons, Sabotage will prevent them from firing until their shotguns cool off. Keep in mind that they can still charge you if you're too close. Overload is also a useful tech ability, quickly stripping them of their shields.
Geth Destroyers can be turned over to your side with Advanced or Master AI Hacking. Their resilience and firepower make them good allies but be mindful that if there no enemies in its line of sight, it will continue to attack you.

Mass Effect 2[]







Geth Destroyer




Race
Geth


Type
Synthetic


Faction
Geth


Armament
M-451 FirestormML-77 Missile Launcher


Abilities
None


Health
Moderate


Shields
High


Locations
Canalus, Haestrom, Aite, Corang


In Mass Effect 2, Destroyers are rarely encountered, but are even more dangerous at close range as they are armed with flamethrowers. Like Geth Troopers, the appearance of Destroyers has changed since the previous game; they now have a red and black color scheme, similar to the Geth Juggernauts from the first game.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Destroyers are armed with the M-451 Firestorm which is extremely lethal at close ranges. As their weapon range is limited, they will attempt to get close to their opponents.
Defensive
They have very strong shields, which can be an obstacle to attempts to hack them or damage their vulnerable fuel tanks if they are carrying flamethrowers. This is their main defense, however, as Geth Destroyers do not seek cover, exposing themselves to enemy fire.

Tactics[]
Like the Blood Pack and Blue Suns Pyros, Destroyers can be sent to an explosive demise by a single well-placed shot to their fuel tanks or a well-timed Overload when their defenses are down; in this case, the shot is considerably more difficult head-on since the Destroyer's hulking frame obscures the silver fuel pack located on its upper back. The fuel tank is far more exposed from the top and rear.
Normally a Destroyer's shield must be removed before shots to the fuel tank can connect; however, extremely powerful single-shot weapons such as sniper rifles and pistols that do enough damage from a single shot to simultaneously break the remaining shield and damage health underneath will set off the tank if the shot is on target. On higher difficulties, the M-98 Widow or the M-92 Mantis with Disruptor Ammo are the best options for this.
An Engineer's Combat Drone will cause the Destroyer to turn around, exposing the tanks.
AI Hacking on either the Destroyer or another nearby geth enemy can cause the Destroyer to turn its back to you.
The Arc Projector is particularly effective against flamethrower-wielding Destroyers: if a single shot strips any shields a Destroyer has and manages to damage its health bar, this will immediately detonate its fuel tank from any angle, killing it instantly. The Arc Projector also deals bonus damage to shields and even more bonus damage to synthetic enemies on top of that.
The M-451 Firestorm will NOT detonate unshielded Destroyers as it can versus organic types of pyro enemy. This is likely because the Firestorm can't ignite or panic synthetic targets, though Incinerate will detonate Destroyers just fine.
Unlike mercenary flamethrower units, the Geth Destroyer will not panic if its fuel tank is ruptured and will continue to charge your position, thus raising the likelihood that you will be caught within the blast radius of the explosion.
Heavy Disruptor Ammo has a chance to cause synthetics to explode on death, and if that effect applies to a dead Destroyer its fuel tank will also go.
Because of their enhanced stats, Destroyers are even more dangerous up close than most other pyro-type enemies. Even Vanguards must take these foes down from a distance rather than engaging within their flamethrowers' deadly reach. Strip their shields ASAP and do what you can to distract or prevent them from getting too close.
When exploring the worlds in the Firewalker Pack, Geth Destroyers are armed with ML-77 Missile Launchers to compensate for the distances that the M-451 Firestorm cannot reach. In this situation, dodge the missiles while firing a few well placed shots and the Destroyers will fall in no time.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis




Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




