









Girard
Alliance Lieutenant

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
Dave Wittenberg


Appearances
Mass Effect


Lieutenant Girard is an Alliance officer working on the Citadel in 2183. Speaking with a French accent, he calls Commander Shepard to help with a young woman, Talitha, who is at Dock 422 with a pistol, claiming she wants to die. 
Girard has a sniper in place, but asks Shepard to find a peaceful solution—he seems quite fond of Talitha, he does not want to hurt her, and he's willing to wait her outburst out. He gives Shepard a sedative, asking them to calm Talitha and convince her to take it.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
If Shepard notices his concern for Talitha, Girard stutters and claims he's only doing his job.
If Talitha is sedated, Lieutenant Girard pledges to make arrangements to take her to a psychiatric facility. As Talitha was only six when she was enslaved, Girard wonders what's the point of the Alliance out in space if they can't even keep one little girl safe. If Shepard advises him to take action instead of wringing his hands on cases like Talitha's, Girard wholeheartedly agrees. If Shepard is unsure how to proceed but just vows to expend some effort, Girard wonders if it's enough. If Shepard advocates for retribution, Girard's tone does not agree with meting violence on those who would mess with humanity. If Shepard deems the whole affair a waste of their time, Girard chides the Commander to empathize as Talitha spent 13 years being treated like an animal.
If Talitha kills herself, Girard expresses regret for how things turned out. She was just an ordinary transport detail, though the Lieutenant came to pity her and desired to save her. He composes himself afterward and lets Shepard go before retrieving Talitha's corpse.
If Shepard orders Girard to use his sniper, he tries to convince the Commander Talitha doesn't pose a danger to anyone but herself. He still complies if Shepard presses the issue, and dejectedly notes afterward that he never wanted to do that.
If Shepard leaves the Citadel without resolving the issue, the Lieutenant is then forced to deal with it on his own.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3[]
Lieutenant Girard saw action on Noveria during the Reaper invasion. While recovering from a fight, he was interviewed by the Alliance News Network for his thoughts on using medi-gel on batarians following claims that it doesn't work on them. Girard alleges he'd be sure to to lend the batarians a hand, as soon as he's done helping any other races first (including geth).

See Also[]
Alliance News Network
Concerned Batarians Explain that Medigel Works on Them, Too



