







The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

Global Plot 2 is an assignment cut from Mass Effect. Like the other "global plots", it would have been a lengthy quest which takes place across several of the game's main locations. Thematically, this one deals with the threat posed by an AI to the galactic economy.

Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Plotline
3 Trivia
4 References


Acquisition[]
While this assignment is given on the Citadel, it would also require the player to be able to visit Caleston (Therum's old name during development).

Plotline[]
The assignment would start with Shepard being told to meet an agent named Hauser. This person would act as Shepard's main contact during most of the assignment. Hauser would send Shepard to three different places on the Citadel: to the Emporium, to meet with a minister, or to meet with a turian. Going to the Emporium would result in a firefight; the minister could be shaken down or persuaded to "reveal everything", and as for the turian, he would "confirm numbers." Combat could erupt afterwards, some of it "decoy" and some of it "genuine". Eventually it appears Shepard would get to talk to an AI, and soon after, Hauser comes into contact with Shepard again to proceed with the mission.
On Caleston, Shepard travels to the "AI base" and eventually talks to it again. The player would be given the choice between fighting it, or allying with it. If Shepard chooses to side with the AI, Hauser must also be persuaded not to oppose it. Siding with the AI allows it to perform "trade manipulation" which can benefit Shepard in different ways, like reducing market prices or obtaining resources or supplies (though only one at a time). Otherwise, taking down the AI is what Hauser would urge Shepard to do.

Trivia[]
The plot of this assignment holds some parallels with Citadel: Signal Tracking: a rogue AI operating near the Presidium Emporium that brings attention to itself by diverting credits from third parties.
References[]
Plot Database: LE1.Global_Plots.Global_Plot_02



