


The Governor's Office is the seat of government in Aya's capital city. Incumbent governor Paaran Shie leads her people here in matters of civic affairs.
Contents

1 Layout
2 Characters
3 Missions
4 Terminals


Layout[]
The office is accessible through doors to the east and west. The west door leads to the Marketplace while the east door leads to the buffer zone between the office and The Tavetaan.
The outer chamber is staffed by Arbiter Ohmdaal and the governor's aide Enroh Bosaan. The two doors behind them (to the north) leads to the governor's inner chamber overlooking the Marketplace. A terminal there updates with the governor's notes and correspondence.

Characters[]
Arbiter Ohmdaal
Enroh Bosaan
Paaran Shie
Missions[]
Additional Tasks
Task: Laws and Customs
Task: Messages to the Nexus
Terminals[]



COUNCIL MEETING NOTES
Translated from Shelesh:

Personal meeting notes of Governor Paaran Shie:

V: Wants to open southern valley region to development, with goal to provide refugees with permanent homes.

K: Believes we're already at risk of overcrowding and harming local ecosystem. Votes to use land strictly for food production.

M: Proposes compromise solution to construct orbital habitats using Nexus technology. Refugees would rotate between Aya's surface and orbital habitats using lottery system.

E: Disagrees with accepting Initiative help and especially tech. Points out the black hole will make orbital construction projects difficult, and may attract notice of kett patrols.

Final vote delayed to Novoa Bav.


We need a better home for our people. Voeld is fallen. Havarl remains unstable, and Aya is too small to support all of us. Is Kadara Port an option? Do we even dare attempt reconciliation?







Proposed amendment to Statute J-34771
Translated from Shelesh:

Governor,

The recent creation of an alien embassy and permission for non-angara to enter Aya's city has created numerous potential conflicts with our governing laws. One particular area of concern is in the resolution of such disputes. These aliens are not citizens of Aya, and therefore do not possess any legal rights or responsibilities. More importantly, we can't enforce punitive measures on them for violating our laws. It's impractical to grant all of these individuals diplomatic immunity. Sooner or later, this legal murkiness will become a significant problem, and I would prefer we clarify our position now.

Please review my attached document. It's slightly under 300 pages and not as thorough as I'd like, but I believe it represents a good start. I look forward to hearing your thoughts.

Sincerely,

Arbiter Ohmdaal







Tonight
Translated from Shelesh:

Paaran,

I'm having dinner at the usual place this evening. My security detail will provide maximum privacy. Hope to see you. We have a lot to discuss.


- Evfra





