


Lexi has developed a serum that may hold off the symptoms of neural decay that a number of scavengers are experiencing. All she needs is the perfect test subject.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Pick up Lexi's serum
2.2 Scan scavengers to find a candidate
2.3 Talk to the scavenger


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: The Mind of An Exile

After completion of the above, the next time that Pathfinder Ryder enters The Paradise this mission will be added.

Walkthrough[]
Pick up Lexi's serum[]
Follow the navpoint  to the serum and collect it.

Scan scavengers to find a candidate[]
Lexi will come over the comm and say that she needs a candidate. You will then have to scan people in The Paradise until a candidate can be found. There is no need to scan all of the people as a navpoint will be added out near the edge of the establishment. Head to the navpoint and scan the scavenger.

Talk to the scavenger[]
When Ryder scans the scavenger at the navpoint, Lexi says that you will have to ask for the scavenger's permission to administer the serum. It will take some persuasion before he agrees. On the second dialogue node, Ryder can either choose to further persuade him, leading the scavenger to accept the serum, or to depart without administering it. After the conversation, the mission ends.
Lexi says she will watch the progress of the scavenger and that she will report back when she has found something.

Aftermath[]
You will receive this email later:





Serum Update
To: Ryder
From: Lexi

Ryder,

I've been monitoring the scavenger you administered the serum to. His neural responses have improved dramatically, and he looks to be making progress. But -- and this is the weird part -- he does seem to be displaying signs of slight depression. Whatever was affecting his brain chemistry seemed to have been releasing dopamine into his system, and now he's suffering withdrawal.

I think he'll even out after a few weeks, but I'm keeping an eye on him. In the meantime, I'll forward my results to the Nexus. If we're lucky, we can use this to stop neural decay before it begins.


-Lexi


Rewards[]
+270 XP (may not show on screen)



