









Greta Reynolds




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Armament
Assault Rifle, Shotgun


Abilities
Unknown


Health
Low


Shields
Moderate


Locations
Feros


Greta Reynolds is the wife of Davin Reynolds and a colonist of Zhu's Hope on Feros. She guards the entrance to the colony and protects the colonists from any potential threats.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Like all of the other colonists, Greta Reynolds has fallen victim to the mind control capabilities of the Thorian creature. She waits with Ledra and some inactive Thorian Creepers behind heavy covers on a chokepoint walkway in anticipation of Shepard's return. Shepard has the choice to either use the Anti-Thorian gas grenade to save Greta and the other colonists or slaughter them outright.
If Greta survived the Thorian's destruction, she's grateful to Shepard for her freedom. The Thorian forced her think what it wanted, and she felt its death during Shepard's assault. She's glad to have another chance at life, which is what she and her husband wanted all along. However, if she lived while Davin died she will be absent from Zhu's Hope in the aftermath. If too many colonists died and her husband's still alive, she plans to get out with him and move back to Earth: the sooner Feros is a memory behind them, the better.



Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





