


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 

Haarfel is a rugged region in Kadara's badlands. It is bounded to the southeast by Spirits' Ledge, to the west by Varren's Scalp, and to the northwest by Kurinth's Valley. To the south is the giant mountain hosting Kadara Port at the top, and Kadara Slums at the bottom acts as a gateway between the port and the larger world.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




One of Kadara's three Remnant monoliths is on Haarfel, easily noticeable right after exiting the slums. The entrance to the underground vault is located further northwest, on a quarry-like depression past the region's mountainous terrain.
Haarfel is littered with numerous exile structures, some of which are populated by people who live beyond (or in defiance of) Kadara Port's authority. The mountains' sheer cliffs prevent easy travel on foot or even by Nomad, though vehicle trails can allow access to the rest of the region by crossing over first to other regions. 
To cut down on travel times, Haarfel has two Forward Station sites for convenience: one outside the slums, and another overlooking the entrance to the Remnant vault.
The sulfur pools outside the slums provide water to Kadara Port after filtration and processing, although such places are also used by unscrupulous criminals as dumping grounds for corpses due to their highly acidic content. The water and even the rocks are burning due to the sulfur prevalence, contributing to the thick cloud cover that obscures the ground when seen from Kadara Port.

Missions[]



Heleus Assignments
Counting Bodies
Emergency S.O.S.
Gone with the Wind
Healing Kadara's Heart
Mind Games
Modern Medicine
Precious Cargo
Safe Journeys


Additional Tasks
Task: Broken Family
Task: Herbal Entrepreneurs
Task: Hitting Rocks for Science
Task: Remnant Data Cores

Datapads[]
On an observation tower south of the entrance to the Remnant vault:




Salvage Team 13: "The Vagabonds" - Log 024
Login: UNKNOWN USER

Wear the helmet, keep your mind. The living skeletons come with guns and take it otherwise. Seen it.

The fierce one. The quiet one. The little salarian. They didn't know. Why didn't they? Why doesn't anyone ever listen to the warning?

Had to do it. No one really hears anything but a gunshot.

END LOG








Outcast Guard: [Audio Log] Turn that shit off.
Outcast Guard: [Audio Log] The Collective's taken out three patrols this week.
Outcast Guard: [Audio Log] They attack, I'm gonna catch them in the act.
Outcast Guard: [Audio Log] And present it as evidence? You're such a—did you hear that?
Outcast Guard: [Audio Log] (Yelling and gunshots.)







