









LOKI Mech




Race
Mech


Type
Synthetic


Faction
Various


Armament
M-3 PredatorM-4 ShurikenEnergy Pulse


Abilities
 Self-Destruction Post-Mortem Explosion


Health
Moderate


Armor
Low


Locations
Freedom's Progress, Lazarus Station, Bekenstein, Neith, Illium, Citadel, Omega, Capek, Aite, Hagalaz, Project Base, 2175 Aeia


The Hahne-Kedar-manufactured LOKI Mech is a bipedal humanoid security robot designed for security detail and guard duty in locations where manpower is an issue, or where the use of organics for "around the clock" shifts is unfeasible. Initially used exclusively by the Alliance for colony guard duty, the LOKI Mech came into new use following the Battle of the Citadel in 2183. Numerous civilian and military sector units saw staggering losses from Sovereign's attack and incidents involving the rogue Spectre Saren Arterius.

Contents

1 Overview
2 Capabilities
3 Tactics
4 Trivia







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Overview[]
See also: Codex/Technology#Security Mechs
Mechs such as the LOKI have long seen use in groups on the shiftier side of the law when raw manpower is needed. The Eclipse mercenaries make extensive use of them, typically as expendable assault units. They are also used by Blue Suns private security company, as well as the Cerberus organization, who both typically deploy them for added security detail when needed.
LOKIs possess a basic personality suite and are easily programmed for various security tasks; they can be equipped with numerous weapon systems, both lethal and non-lethal, as circumstances dictate. A LOKI Mech that switches to its security protocols is easily identified as the dual "eye" on the unit turns from white to red. LOKI Mechs can be programmed to speak pre-recorded phrases when needed and in combat will casually advise intruders to leave the area, even while firing at them. They are also waterproof, and won't short out in rainy environments.
While inexpensive, the LOKI's simplicity comes with several downsides: mechs are incapable of any complex tactics, never seek cover during a firefight, and their firewalls aren't able to deal with high-level hacking techniques, allowing their programs to be easily overridden and turned upon their owners. In no way is a LOKI Mech the equivalent of a trained soldier in a firefight; as a result, they are typically deployed in overpowering numbers, or as a supplement to another force.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
LOKI Mechs encountered as enemies are usually armed with the M-4 Shuriken Submachine Gun which they are able to fire without the bullet spread or recoil that the player would suffer when wielding the weapon, making them highly damaging, even at long range. At close range LOKI Mechs can use an electrical pulse similar to the one used by FENRIS Mechs that can damage and stun attackers. They cannot shoot their weapons while deploying this attack.

Defensive
On higher difficulties, LOKIs possess armor protection. Due to their simplistic programming, LOKI Mechs have very limited tactical movement. They are relatively slow, do not seek to avoid enemy fire or take cover, and relentlessly advance during combat. LOKI Mechs will frequently explode when destroyed by a head shot or explosion. LOKI units can also explode if they trigger their self-destruct protocol when overwhelmed or crippled. 

Tactics[]
LOKIs advance on Shepard's squad slowly but relentlessly, and this combined with their high damage always makes them priority targets.
They never take cover, making them easy prey at a distance, especially for powers or with a unit armed with powerful long-ranged weapons such as Sniper Rifles. However once they get close enough to start firing, they tend to disrupt your aim when scoped.
Do not underestimate their damage! On Insanity difficulty, especially early in the game when shields and health are weakest a single burst from a LOKI's weapon can reduce your shields by more than half, and 3-4 volleys can be fatal. Use whatever tactics you can to avoid taking direct fire such as arcing powers around cover, timing attacks when the LOKI reloads, or staggering/disabling the LOKI before popping out to shoot. These techniques are of course useful against all enemies, but especially important against LOKIs to ensure you can take them out before they get too close.
LOKI Mechs are not durable combatants as individuals, but they are almost always encountered in groups. Powers with an area of effect are usually able to hit multiple LOKIs at once, very useful for stripping any armor protection they have or disabling an entire group in one attack.
LOKI Mechs can easily overwhelm Shepard's squadmates on higher difficulties if they are not assisted aggressively or kept out of the line of fire as squadmates rarely stay in cover long enough to allow their shields to fully recharge. Squadmates are sometimes more useful against LOKIs when kept well back, using their powers to strip their armor and disable them first, as squadmates do not have to expose themselves to deploy their powers.
Mordin can be especially useful against grouped LOKI Mechs as with his omni-tool upgrade he can one-shot their armor even on Insanity difficulty with Incineration Blast; he can also freeze them in groups with Full Cryo Blast.
LOKIs are easily staggered when hit by powers, melee attacks, or headshots. This should be taken advantage of whenever possible to reduce the amount of incoming fire from them.
Overload, Energy Drain, and Disruptor Ammo as well as any force-based power with an area of effect such as biotics are all good choices for dealing with LOKI Mechs once their armor is stripped. If your class does not have access to Disruptor Ammo, you may want to consider equipping a follower with Squad Disruptor Ammo.
Overload is particularly useful against unarmored LOKIs as it will also overheat their weapons, reducing incoming fire. Flashbang Grenade is able to overheat the weapons of even armored LOKIs as well as stagger them in groups.
AI Hacking is highly effective against LOKIs as they make for superb diversions against other LOKIs or any other enemies in the area and they deal high damage, though their armor must be stripped before they can be hacked.
LOKI Mechs can be dismembered. A LOKI unit with damaged legs will crawl along the floor, while one without an arm will be unable to fire its weapon (though it can still self-destruct, and has its shock attack). Crippled LOKIs are more likely to self-destruct, and destroying their heads instantly triggers the explosion. LOKIs are prone to taking damage or losing limbs not just from gunfire but any powers with a strong force component such as Concussive Shot, most biotics, and even melee attacks.
Generally, taking on LOKIs in melee range should be avoided if possible due to their high damage and tendency to explode, but if melee combat is attempted, use cover to your advantage. LOKIs that are about to advance around corners can be punched before they are able to draw a bead on you, and repeat blows will stagger, dismember, and eventually kill them.
LOKI units speak in a distinct, calm, digital, female voice that is easily recognisable and can be used to tell if they are present, if they were hiding curled-up unnoticed in their storage/sleep pose until this point.
The M-100 Grenade Launcher is extremely effective against advancing groups of LOKIs, able to annihilate their armor and simultaneously send them flying or dismember them with a single shot, even on Insanity difficulty.
Trivia[]
LOKI Mechs are likely named after the Norse god of mischief.
During the mission on Lazarus Station, the LOKI mechs that were reprogrammed by Wilson are labeled as "Hacked Mech". They also lack armor even on Insanity difficulty, unlike regular LOKI Mechs.
During the Arrival DLC pack, Shepard has to take control of a LOKI Mech to escape from the Med Lab where the Commander had been sedated for two days.
In the arcade game Shattered Eezo, players take control of a holographic LOKI Mech and fight in a boxing like match.
The LOKI Mechs outside Mordin's Clinic are armed with M-8 Avenger Assault Rifles.
During the occupation of Omega, Cerberus used heavily modified LOKI Mechs called Rampart Mechs to help control the station's population.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




