




Hagalaz

Region
Milky Way / Hourglass Nebula / Sowilo





Planet View


Orbital Distance
0.95 AU


Orbital Period
1.0 Earth Year


Keplerian Ratio
0.857


Radius
6,309 km


Day Length
98.3 Earth Days


Atm. Pressure
0.83 atm


Surface Temp
72 °C (day) −64 °C (night)


Surface Gravity
0.69 g


Mass
0.67 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Hourglass Nebula / Sowilo System /  Third planet

Prerequisite: Lair of the Shadow Broker (Mass Effect 2)

Prerequisite: Priority: Thessia (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Missions
3 Mineral Deposits
4 Search and Rescue
5 Trivia


Description[]
Hagalaz is a second-tier garden world that receives little attention from the galactic community. A salarian mining expedition initially discovered the planet, which was promptly strong-armed away from them by organized crime figures. Hagalaz's exploration rights were then sold to the highest bidder, which led to a brief burst of mining colonies in the 2000s, but most of those were abandoned when other planets were found with more accessible resources.
Though Hagalaz has a nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere capable of supporting life, its rotational period is slower than Earth's, making its day and night 98 Earth days long. The intense heat on one side of the planet and the extreme cold on the other make for violent storm cells wherever the sun is rising or setting. As a result, the flora and fauna of Hagalaz have developed the capability to live in cycles of ice, flooding, baking heat, and dramatic air pressure changes. The biota of the planet has been largely unexploited by the exotic pet and gardening trades, since simulating their natural conditions is problematic for the average consumer.

Missions[]
Mission: Lair of the Shadow Broker
Mineral Deposits[]
Initial Scanner Result: Moderate



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

Medium

5,200


Platinum

Medium

7,200


Iridium

Medium

5,300


Element Zero

None

0

Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Shadow Broker Support Team
Trivia[]
Hagalaz is an alternative name of Haglaz. A reconstructed Proto-Germanic name of the h-rune ᚺ, meaning "hail" (the precipitation).



