









Hana Murakami




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Armament
Pistol


Abilities
Unknown


Health
Low


Shields
Very Low


Locations
Feros


Hana Murakami is a human colonist at Zhu's Hope, on Feros, and the last surviving crew member of the freighter Borealis.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Hana is angry at Ledra, the salarian merchant, who promised the crew a fortune, but ended up stranding them on a colony under geth attack. However, Hana is beginning to enjoy life on Feros, though she is unable to explain why.
When Commander Shepard arrives, Hana is working on a control panel. If asked what she is doing, Hana becomes irritated and insists it is just ship diagnostics for the damaged Borealis. Shepard can offer to help, but Hana refuses and will not talk to Shepard again.
Hana, who has become one of the Thorian's thralls, is actually monitoring the controls for the freighter's crane, which is keeping the entrance to the Thorian's lair hidden. She is also being guarded by the two colonists next to her, because if the geth manage to reach this position — the heart of the colony — and use the control panel, they will be able to enter the Thorian's lair.
When Shepard's squad returns from the ExoGeni Corporation headquarters, Hana holds her position and tries to fight Shepard. She is supported by numerous Thorian Creepers, some colonists, and Macha Doyle. If she is not killed in the assault, she can be found later in the infirmary. When prompted she states her intention to return to Earth as she has "had enough of the colony life."

Trivia[]
Hana Murakami's voice actress, Kim Mai Guest, also provides the voice for Maeko Matsuo in Mass Effect and Dawn Star in Jade Empire.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





