









Harkin
C-Sec Officer

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
Roger Jackson


Appearances
Mass EffectMass Effect 2


Harkin was one of the first human C-Sec officers. Described by Captain Anderson as "a disgrace to the species", Harkin's was not an illustrious career. During his 20 years in C-Sec, he was known for roughing up suspects in custody, taking bribes, and abusing drugs and alcohol. The human embassy used to intervene to cover for him when he got in trouble, for fear that it would damage humanity's reputation if he were dismissed. Once there were enough humans in C-Sec, the embassy no longer protected him, and he was eventually suspended by Executor Pallin shortly before the Eden Prime attack for drinking on the job.

Contents

1 Mass Effect
2 Mass Effect 2
3 Trivia
4 Cut Content









“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
Commander Shepard looks for Harkin at Ambassador Udina's suggestion, hoping he can provide a lead to finding Garrus Vakarian. The Commander finds Harkin at Chora's Den in the Lower Wards, drinking and complaining about C-Sec maintaining a file on him. He is very amused that Shepard is part of Anderson's crew, and if Shepard is female, he will sexually harass her. Before he tells the squad where Garrus is, Harkin makes them listen to his story about Anderson. He claims the captain used to be a Spectre, but his first mission went so badly that the Council expelled him. When Harkin is asked how he knows about something that he himself admits was supposed to be kept quiet, he boasts of his career giving him plenty of inside knowledge. He snidely compares secrets to herpes, something that can't help but be spread around.
Once he eventually gets around to telling Shepard where Garrus is, Harkin says that he can be found at Dr. Michel's med clinic in the Upper Wards.
Harkin's story about Anderson ultimately proves to be inaccurate; while Anderson was a Spectre candidate, he was not selected, largely due to his candidacy being sabotaged by Saren Arterius.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
By 2185, Harkin has been fired from C-Sec and become a racketeer on the Citadel under the alias "Fade." He is revealed to have facilitated Sidonis' disappearance in the Terminus Systems. Shepard and Garrus eventually learn of Harkin's identity and location, but while trying to track him down they are forced to fight Blue Suns mercenaries Harkin is in league with as well as various reprogrammed mechs. After being cornered and subsequently interrogated and threatened by Garrus, Harkin arranges a meeting with Sidonis. Unless Shepard intervenes, Garrus shoots Harkin in the leg to make it harder for Harkin to escape the authorities; if Shepard prevents this, Garrus settles for viciously headbutting his former co-worker instead. 
EDI later reveals that Harkin is taken into custody by C-Sec for his crimes.

Trivia[]
It is possible for Shepard to never meet Harkin, as Garrus's loyalty mission in Mass Effect 2 is optional; if Shepard didn't talk to Harkin in Mass Effect, they can ask Garrus who he is during the mission. A completely new game in Mass Effect 2 (i.e. not imported) will assume that Shepard never met Harkin previously.
Roger Jackson, the voice of Harkin, also provides the voice for Engineer Greg Adams in the Mass Effect franchise, Urdnot Wreav in Mass Effect 3, as well as Lord Yun in Jade Empire, another game by BioWare.
Cut Content[]





The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

A cut assignment, Citadel: Oculon Syndicate, heavily featured Harkin as a contact for the Citadel's criminal underworld. However, it was also possible for Shepard to end up destroying the related crime syndicate and even kill Harkin. His deeper affiliation to criminals in this cut sub-plot bears similarities to Harkin's situation in Mass Effect 2.



