






This article is about Harvesters in general. For the enemy unit, see Harvester (enemy).


Harvesters are huge creatures that inhabit several worlds in the Milky Way, including Tuchanka and Tarith.
Harvesters are intimidating creatures, being nearly a third of the size of a Thresher Maw and highly aggressive. Their primary means of attack appears to be flying low and "dropping" klixen. This could mean that harvesters either birth klixen or simply pick them up and relocate them. Either way suggests a rather fiendish intelligence; the harvesters are smart enough to use klixen both as shock troops and, failing that, mobile ordnance.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
A Harvester shows up in Clan Urdnot's proving grounds during Grunt's Rite of Passage, disgorging klixen for Grunt and his krantt to fight.
Several of these creatures can be barely discerned amidst the thick chlorine fog on Tarith, haunting the boundaries of the Blood Pack's mining operations.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3[]
During the Reaper invasion of the galaxy, numerous Harvesters were corrupted and utilized by the Reapers as troop transports, atmospheric superiority craft, and ground support.
These Reaper units and the creatures they were made from are also sometimes referred to as "wormnecks" or "worm-necks" by military or military-affiliated personnel.

Trivia[]
Harvesters were first described in The Art of Mass Effect. They were intended to be in the original game as an enemy that could only be killed in the Mako; however, they were excluded due to time and budget constraints. Some assets for them are still in the game's files (both original and Legendary Edition), including their Codex image (shown above) and text entry.
Harvesters were later added in Mass Effect 2, but cannot be killed. Cut animations in the Mass Effect 2 game files show that the Harvesters were intended to be fought on the ground and actually killed.[1]
References[]

↑ http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eeaTevItJ8U





