




Hawking Eta

Milky Way / Hawking Eta












Cluster View


Systems
5


Relays
1



Prerequisite: Collector Ship (mission) or Project Firewalker: Rosalie Lost (Mass Effect 2)

Hawking Eta lies uncomfortably close to the 5 kpc ring around the galactic core, which contains a large fraction of the Milky Way's hydrogen as well as most of its star formation activity. Much of this area is too dangerous to safely travel.
The cluster appears to have been involved in multiple cataclysms, one of which definitively involved Reapers. About 37 million years ago, a powerful mass accelerator round hit and disabled a Reaper and left it inert in Thorne. The mass accelerator round barreled through space until it impacted Klendagon in the Century system. 20-40 million years ago, a spacefaring civilization on Schwarzschild was wiped out by orbital bombardment from dreadnought-class weapons.

Contents

1 Mass Relay Connections
2 Locations
3 Missions
4 Assignments

4.1 Mass Effect
4.2 Mass Effect 2


5 Trivia


Mass Relay Connections[]
Caleston Rift‡
Horse Head Nebula†
Omega Nebula‡
Pangaea Expanse†
† Mass Effect
‡ Mass Effect 2
Locations[]






Hawking Eta



Century



Tamahera•
Klendagon (Presrop†)•
Asteroid belt•
Canctra•
Tharopto



Chandrasekhar‡



Teshub•
Fuel depot•
Hebat•
Mass relay



Schwarzschild‡



Atahil•
Etamis•
Linossa•
Rihali



Thorne‡



Mnemosyne (Lethe)•
Derelict Reaper



Verr‡



Corang•
Allusah•
Serao

† Mass Effect‡ Mass Effect 2

Missions[]
Mission: Reaper IFF
Assignments[]
Mass Effect[]
Assignment: UNC: Locate Signs of Battle
Assignment: UNC: Major Kyle
Assignment: UNC: Turian Insignias
Assignment: UNC: Valuable Minerals
Mass Effect 2[]
Assignment: Project Firewalker: Survey Sites Located
Trivia[]
The cluster is likely named after the renowned astrophysicist and theoretician Stephen Hawking, notable for his work concerning black holes. Several of its systems are also named for black hole physicists.
Although the cluster's gateway system in Mass Effect 2 is Chandrasekhar, several planet descriptions mention the cluster's mass relay being located in the Century system.
If the Firewalker Pack is installed, completion of Project Firewalker: Rosalie Lost only unlocks Chandrasekhar, Century, Schwarzschild and Verr systems. To unlock the Thorne system, the Collector Ship mission has to be completed first.



