






This article is about Helena Blake in general. For information and tactics on fighting her, see Helena Blake (enemy).








Helena Blake
Crime Lord

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Voice Actor
Jane Singer


Appearances
Mass EffectMass Effect 2


Helena Blake is a senior human member of a crime syndicate, and is described by C-Sec as 'a person of interest'.

Contents

1 Mass Effect
2 Mass Effect 2







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
The well-spoken Blake accosts Shepard as the Commander passes by her near the Emporium in the Citadel Presidium, claiming to have a business proposition. She makes little secret of the fact she is part of a criminal syndicate, but claims her two partners have overstepped the mark: they are dealing in the biotic drug called red sand and have engaged in the slave trade. She offers to pay Shepard for removing them on her behalf. Shepard can agree immediately, or refuse — Blake gives the Commander the co-ordinates anyway, asking if Shepard's conscience can tolerate letting these two criminals live. Shepard can also threaten to arrest Blake for her obvious criminal activities, but Blake, unconcerned, responds that she has excellent legal representation.
If Shepard eliminates the two crime bosses, the Commander can then head to Amaranthine, in the Fortuna system, to meet Blake at her hideout and receive a reward. She thanks Shepard for the help and promises that the syndicate will restrict its activities to gambling and the smuggling of illegal technologies in the future.
Shepard can accept her word and leave, or try to arrest Blake again. She tells Shepard she would rather die before going to prison, and that she is prepared to kill to avoid incarceration. She orders her goons to "neutralize the Spectre" and even enters the battle herself, but is killed in the firefight. However, the Commander can persuade Blake, giving her the chance to walk away from the syndicate. She concedes that "those two idiots" have ruined her operation beyond any hope of repair and agrees to disband her organisation permanently.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]

If Blake wasn't killed in 2183, two years later Shepard can run into her on Omega, along the passageways linking the upper and lower levels of the Afterlife Club. If Blake was convinced to retire from her life of crime, she starts working there as a social worker, using her knowledge of the criminal underworld to help the people of Omega. Otherwise, if Shepard simply let her go in 2183, she moves and integrates her criminal empire into the organization of Aria T'Loak, Omega's de facto ruler, becoming an underboss herself.




