


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 







N. Herik
Scientist

Race
Salarian


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Professor Herik is a scientist who traveled aboard the Nexus to Andromeda. He specializes in life sciences.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Professor Herik and his associates have been cooped up on the Nexus for fourteen months with few opportunities to study anything. On Pathfinder Ryder's first visit to the station, the professor can be found in Operations along with fellow scientists Chief Lucan and Dr. Leynomi Aridana. Now with opportunities to flex their skills thanks to Ryder, Herik is hopeful Foster Addison would grant them a real workspace, as he can't concentrate in raucous places.
Professor Herik is impressed with Ryder's preliminary bio scans. He wants the Pathfinder to scan Andromeda wildlife for their Comparative Conservation Effort. 
One of his studies concerns how various species adapt to shipboard life, and he may ask the Pathfinder via email to participate.
On Ryder's return to the Nexus after the establishment of Prodromos on Eos, Professor Herik is one of the grateful denizens greeting the Pathfinder at the Docking Bay. He's particularly impressed with Ryder's feat with the Remnant vault, deeming it both unprecedented and impossible. If Prodromos was founded as a scientific outpost, Herik promises the Nexus will benefit once he and the other scientists waking up unravel the uncovered mysteries. With the opening of more spaces in the Common Area afterward, the professor and his associates Dr. Aridana and Chief Lucan subsequently move to the Tech Lab.
If Ryder confronts Dr. Aridana about a virus that almost brings down SAM Node, Professor Herik notes an increase in anti-AI sentiment on the Nexus. Mostly just graffiti and complaints to Director Tann, so he thinks someone may have taken a more drastic step.
Sometime after the Archon's defeat, Herik requests for Dr. Lexi T'Perro's transfer to the Nexus for her valuable research on kett anatomy. However, the latter declines, opting to stay aboard the Tempest for personal reasons.




