


The Charlatan used Sloane Kelly's own people to beat up Kaetus, her second in command, and deliver a message: it's time to settle things between the Collective and the Outcasts. Sensing a trap, but unable to trust her fellow outcasts, Sloane requests you, an outsider, to witness the confrontation.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Speak to Sloane
2.2 Meet Sloane at the Charlatan's specified location
2.3 Speak to Reyes at Tartarus
2.4 Speak to Sloane


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Night on the Town

Sloane contacts Pathfinder Ryder following the completion of the prerequisite, whether Reyes Vidal is accompanied to Sloane's party or not. Getting this mission also completes the ON HOLD: Wait for trouble to come calling objective for Settling Kadara.




We need to talk
To: Ryder
From: Sloane Kelly 


Come to Kadara. ASAP.


Walkthrough[]
Warning:  The availability of multiple missions can be impacted by the completion of this mission, which requires you to side firmly with either the Outcasts or the Collective. It is recommended to complete the missions below first before undertaking this mission:

Mixed Messages is only available as long as Sloane Kelly is the boss of Kadara Port AND the mission High Noon hasn't been completed.
Out of the Frying Pan will become unavailable if you side with the Collective.
The Collective Base becomes unavailable if you side with Sloane Kelly. The base will instead be open and occupied by enemies.
The Charlatan's Charlatan will be shown as complete in the mission section with the search for the imposter being called off if you side with Sloane Kelly.
Speak to Sloane[]
Head to the Outcast Headquarters and talk to the Outcast boss. Ryder learns that the Charlatan used Sloane's people to beat up Kaetus. A note was pinned on Kateus from the Charlatan inviting Sloane to a meeting to "settle things" between the two. Sloan asks you to accompany her to a location in the Draullir region.

Meet Sloane at the Charlatan's specified location[]
Travel to the Forward Station in the Sulfur Springs region and head to the west-southwest to reach the navpoint located at a cave in the Draullir region. Sloane's there waiting, and she's annoyed at your tardiness regardless of how fast you got there. Speaking with her, you confirm whether to proceed with the mission or do some other things first.
After entering the cave with Sloane, the Charlatan - revealed to be Reyes - appears and challenges Sloane to a duel - the winner takes Kadara. 

The two rivals circle each other on the cave floor like the western gunslingers of old. However, SAM indicates that a sniper has a bead on Sloane and a narrative action prompt appears that requires your immediate decision.
You have two options to control the outcome:

Sloane is killed by the sniper. The Charlatan takes control over Kadara Port.
Sloane is saved, and another narrative action prompt appears where you can shoot the escaping Charlatan. Regardless of whether you take it, Reyes escapes and Sloane remains in control over Kadara port.
The next objective is based upon the choice that you make.
The Charlatan takes over Kadara Port:

Speak to Reyes at Tartarus[]
Head back to Tartarus in Kadara Slums and speak with Reyes. 
Sloane Kelly retains control of Kadara Port:

Speak to Sloane[]
Head back to Outcast Headquarters and speak to Sloane.
After speaking with the winner, the mission ends.

Aftermath[]
If Sloane is in control:
Sloane's regime continues as it was, and the Collective is weakened with their leader on the run. Sloane's hostility against the Initiative remains.
If the Charlatan is in control:
The new boss thinks that with Sloane gone there is a chance for peace, because Sloane would have brought war to Heleus, and exiles on Kadara don't have the population to survive that.

Members of the Collective become nonhostile.
Kadara port is now filled with people from the Collective, while most of the Outcasts are scattered in the Badlands.
The official face for the Collective is the angaran Keema Dohrgun, because the Charlatan prefers to rule from the shadows and use her as the front. You might want to speak with her in the Outcast Headquarters to learn about her view on the new situation.
Kaetus can be visited in the port jail, where he will ask Ryder why they let Sloane die.
With either choice of leader, it is now possible, with permission, to build an outpost on Kadara (if all requirements have been met).
The winner comes to assist during the final battle during Meridian: The Way Home.

Rewards[]
+1330 XP
+73 AVP 
+5% Kadara viability



