







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Hjara Station is a small angaran daar used as a scientific outpost for studying Voeld's geology. It's situated right above a frozen inland sea, east of the Angaran Resistance Base and only a few minutes' walk or drive away. It is the only research station on the planet.
Hjara Station has only been operational for a few years. It was previously occupied by the kett until the Resistance pushed them out and took over the daar. 
Due to limited resources, Hjara's scientists tend to be generalists with multiple fields of study. Most of them were educated on Aya and were trained by the Resistance. Their focus is dictated by Aya's needs, though they don't mind since they all volunteered to be on Hjara. Some of their discoveries include metals and minerals hoarded by the kett as well as a new species of edible cold-weather fungus. One of their present projects is ice sample analysis and comparing pre-Scourge discoveries to present conditions.

Contents

1 Layout
2 Residents
3 Missions
4 Terminals


Layout[]
The station is inset on a small grotto. It has only one way in or out, guarded by two pairs of soldiers on opposite ends. Two towers blinking red signal its location far and wide, and is visible from both the Resistance base and the Kett Base. The local angara, aware of their vulnerable position, have compensated by fighting to the death whenever the kett attempt to invade.
Well-placed solar heaters inside the grotto keep the freezing temperatures to tolerable levels. There are three main structures in the station. One has a particularly large ice sample researched by scientists Janleth and Deenor. One is a kiosk where the local merchant conducts business, next to the daar's lead researcher Knoeth. The last one is a communications room.
A few meters south of the station is enough space for an Initiative Forward Station.

Residents[]
Deenor
Irritated Researcher
Janleth
Knoeth
Merchant
Pasi
Reima
Skeot
Yaret
Missions[]



Priority Ops
On the Frontlines†
Stage a Rescue†


Heleus Assignments
Eyes on the Ground†
Frequency
Stage a Rescue†

† One or the other depending on completion of  Helping Havarl's Scientists

Terminals[]



Yevara
Translated from Shelesh:

I don't know what to do, Knoeth. The outsiders are killing yevara. We don't have the means to stop them. There are so few left—what if our last piece of living history goes extinct? How do we live with ourselves if we do nothing?


I've half a mind to go out there and stop them. I can't let the yevara suffer like this. I won't let their song be silenced.







Field Report
Translated from Shelesh:

Knoeth,

We made it to that mountain peak you had your eye on. You were right—it's an eiroch nesting ground. I wish you could see it, Knoeth. I've never seen so many infant eirochs in one place. They seem to be working together as a community to care for their young. It's a behavior no biologist has witnessed before. What we're seeing today could change eiroch research for years. I don't know how you knew this would be here, but your instincts were spot-on yet again.


I can't wait for you to see the holo-captures I've taken.





