


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
The Holographic Message Terminal is a large angaran device that functions as a local news/bulletin system. It is installed in various locations on Aya's capital city.
The device is composed of two metal rods on a circular base projecting a rotating cylindrical holographic display. Large obstructions (like someone walking into it) will mess up the display, and will remain that way until it is removed.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Aya's citizens use the terminals to store numerous messages for the Nexus and its extragalactic denizens. Enroh Bosaan wants Pathfinder Ryder to download these messages and deliver them to the Andromeda Initiative.


Entries[]



Aya Information Bulletin - Update 4598-A
Translated from Shelesh:

VOELD VICTORY DRIVE

Voeld's people desperately need basic supplies. If your family can spare nutrient paste, unused clothing, outdoor survival gear, machine parts, tools, extra weapons, and ammunition, it could make the difference between life and death for those resisting the kett conquest. Place donated items in the nearest Victory Drive Station of your residential complex.

MOSHAE SJEFA HAS RETURNED!

The rumors are true. Our beloved Moshae Sjefa has been rescued from the kett by brave members of the Resistance, aided by the Milky Way visitors. The Moshae is recovering and in good spirits.

REMINDER FROM GOVERNOR PARAAN SHIE [sic]


You may see unusual visitors on Aya in the days ahead. Don't be alarmed. They're here as guests. Remain vigilant and report suspicious activity to Aya security, but do not attempt to confront or restrain anyone yourself.







WANTED: ENGINEER
Translated from Shelesh:

Looking for a Level 7 starship engineer. Experience repairing and maintaining Varlstedd-Juuv thrusters is required. Will work for extended travel periods lasting up to 6 weeks or more. Basic zero-gravity combat training preferred, but can be learned on the job. Meal prep skills and an engaging conversation style a plus. MUST BE CLEAN.


Submit applications to Captain Saamajer at Dock 3.







Aya Information Bulletin - Update 5013-C
Translated from Shelesh:

MINERAL BATHS AT DAAR VREJA

The volcanic mineral springs at Daar Vreja have been declared safe and are now open to the public during daylight hours. Bathers are encouraged to spend no more than two hours in the springs to alleviate the expected demand.

FESTIVAL OF GARESSEN

As an equinox approaches, Aya will soon transit away from its sun for a cycle. Tomorrow night, families are encouraged to celebrate this moment. Remind your loved ones of all you have. Make room at the meal table for those without family of their own. Never forget that the sun always returns to us.

LOA VE TERAAVA BENEFIT PERFORMANCE


Famous musician and humorist Loa ve Teraava will perform his acclaimed soliloquy and original composition "The Farmer of Havarl" to raise funds for scientific research of our original homeworld's fragile ecosystem.







Aya Information Bulletin - Update 6147-B
Translated from Shelesh:

RESISTANCE RECRUITMENT SURGES

Recent victories on Voeld have spurred renewed public interest in joining the Resistance. Volunteer sign-ups increased 500% over last year. Evfra de Tershaav encourages everyone, regardless of age, talents, or experience, to submit to a Resistance recruitment screening.

SCOURGE STRIKE ON SOUTHERN HAVARL

Archaeologists working on a dig site on Havarl's unsettled southern continent were forced to abandon their camp when a freak tendril of Scourge energy pierced the atmosphere above their location. No injuries were reported, but the team leader stated the group "lost years of research" in the event.

KADARA PORT TRAVEL ADVISORY


Cargo ship and transport vessel crews are reminded that Kadara Port remains a high-risk travel zone. No official business has been sanctioned with the deserters, and contact with the Milky Way immigrants living on Kadara is strongly discouraged.







Aya Information Bulletin - Update 7832-E
Translated from Shelesh:

KETT RAID ON DAAR HILJAAV

Resistance scouts on Voeld report a kett attack on Daar Hiljaav has left the settlement in ruins. Exact casualties are still being calculated. If you are from Daar Hiljaav or have family there, please contact Enroh Bosaan in the governor's office.

NUTRIENT PASTE PROCESSING BREAKTHROUGH

Teams researching food processing discovered an improvement to refinery techniques that will yield a 15% increase in caloric values and better preservation of the original ingredients' flavors.

STATEMENT FROM THE MOSHAE


In answer to persistent public inquiries regarding the health and status of Moshae Sjefa, she has released the following statement: "Thank you to everyone who has expressed concern for my well-being. Rest assured, I am currently hard at work with the Milky Way visitors to eliminate the kett threat and restore peace to our people."







Aya Information Bulletin - Update 8519-J
Translated from Shelesh:

ELGAAR AND JAESS FAMILIES JOINED

Members of the Elgaar and Jaess bloodlines have announced they are joining. The union has occurred because of marriage between sons from each family. The families express great happiness at this joining and are consulting on an inclusive name for their newly extended bloodlines.

NEXUS DELIVERS GIFTS TO AYA

The Nexus ambassador has announced the delivery of two gifts to Aya. The first is a cultural and historical exhibit of artifacts from the Milky Way galaxy. The second gift is one of the "omni-tool" devices used by the Pathfinder, which we have been encouraged to develop for our own use.

SEVERE WEATHER REMINDER


The governor's office reminds Aya's citizens and visitors that we're entering the cycle of each year when weather patterns become unpredictable. Take precautions against the possibility of sudden and severe storms.





