




Horizon

Region
Milky Way / Shadow Sea / Iera





Planet View


Orbital Distance
2.1 AU


Orbital Period
3.0 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
1.029


Radius
5,402 km


Day Length
37.8 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
1.68 atm


Surface Temp
13 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.7 g


Mass
0.498 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Shadow Sea / Iera System /  Third planet


Colony

Species
Human


Capital
Discovery


Colony Founded
2168 CE


Population
654,390 (2185)Unknown, est. 800,000 - 1.5 million (2186)



Prerequisite: Horizon (mission) (Mass Effect 2)

Prerequisite: Priority: Thessia (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description

1.1 Mass Effect 2
1.2 Mass Effect 3


2 Codex Entry
3 Additional Information
4 Missions

4.1 Mass Effect 2
4.2 Mass Effect 3


5 Trivia


Description[]
Mass Effect 2[]
A temperate world that has hit the "sweet spot" for carbon-based life, Horizon has a nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere maintained by abundant indigenous photosynthetic plants and bacteria. While the native plants are not very palatable to humans, the soil conditions are such that a handful of introduced Earth species have flourished, and the colonists must take strict care to prevent ecological disasters. Genetically-engineered "terminator seeds" that grow nutritious but sterile crops to minimize outbreaks are the rule rather than the exception.
Animals on Horizon appear to be exploding in diversity, similar to Earth's Cambrian period. Large flying insect analogs take advantage of the thicker-than-Earth atmosphere and low gravity to grow enormous. Microbial life has proven relatively benign; a series of vaccinations for the most virulent strains of soil-borne diseases is all that is required for a visit.

Mass Effect 3[]
A temperate world that has hit the "sweet spot" for carbon-based life, Horizon has a nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere maintained by abundant plants and bacteria. Its soil is particularly compatible with Earth vegetation, and so a thriving human community has sprung up.
Horizon's population is in flux. A Collector attack in 2185 inflicted significant casualties, but refugees have been streaming to the planet since the Reaper invasion began. Since many land illegally, there is no way to accurately track population. Although many colonists resent the newcomers, others have embraced Horizon's new role. Advertisements for "Sanctuary," its main refugee center, can be seen galaxy-wide.

Codex Entry[]





Audio: Horizonhttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Horizon_Codex.ogg

A typical Terminus colony possessing minimal tourist value, Horizon promises substantial economic opportunity, especially in providing new products for humans and supplying the Turian Hierarchy. Surveyed 18 years ago, Horizon received pilot habitation four years later; the colony proper is now eight years old.
Blessed with verdant forests and abundant fresh water, Horizon maintains a colonial culture that thrives as a refuge from the increasing restrictions of Citadel-governed society. Horizon has attracted numerous dissidents, marginal people, and fringe-dwellers from across Alliance space.









“I know when something's not right.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Incursion follow.









“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.









“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Additional Information[]
A variety of Horizonian insects taste similar to Earth shrimp and can be used in dishes involving the latter. However, eating them apparently induces a mild laxative effect.
According to information gathered by the Collectors in 2183, the human population of Horizon is 643,315. Despite an Alliance defense outreach fronted by the efforts of either Ashley Williams or Kaidan Alenko, the Collectors make off with approximately a third of Horizon's colonists in 2185.
In 2186, a facility on Horizon called Sanctuary lures people in with the promise of shelter from the Reaper war. With all signal activity in the surrounding region of space being actively interfered with, the real reason Sanctuary has stayed off the Reapers' radar until late in the war is because it is actually a Cerberus operation experimenting in converting refugees into husks for their studies in indoctrination. 
The Reapers invade only when Cerberus has made headway into co-opting the Reapers' control over their creatures, although by then the Sanctuary sham has been exposed to the galaxy at large due to Commander Shepard's interference. Most of Horizon's population that remained after the Collector attack went to their fates at Sanctuary.

Missions[]
Mass Effect 2[]
Mission: Horizon (mission)
Mass Effect 3[]
Mission: Priority: Horizon
Trivia[]
Despite being described in the Codex as a Terminus systems colony, Mass Effect 3's galaxy map shows the Shadow Sea Cluster as being in the Attican Traverse.
In Mass Effect 3, Commander Shepard's line while departing from the planet ends with "I've had enough of this place.", similar to Shepard's last comment from Mass Effect 2 which is "I've had enough of this colony."



