



Huerta Memorial Hospital is located on the Presidium of the Citadel, occupying one of the spokes connecting one side of the torus to its opposite. The Presidium Commons can be glimpsed below the right-hand side of the hospital, oriented from the elevator entrance. The hospital is named after President Christopher Huerta of the United North American States on Earth. 
Touted as a leader in premium medical care, Huerta Memorial's staff and facilities can accommodate all major Citadel races as well as some exotic ones. It has 12 full time doctors and more than 50 support staff, and many of its experts also specialize in xenomedicine.


Points of Interest[]




Patient Lounge
Avina is located behind the shop kiosk.
Doctor Chakwas
Dr. Chloe Michel
Aeian T'Goni
Thane Krios before the attack on the Citadel.
A receptionist arguing with a visitor about the name of the hospital. Siding with either one grants 2 Reputation.
A human specialist, Dr. Ravin, trying to procure a modified medi-gel formula for hanar patients. (Before the attack on the Citadel)
Jacob Taylor after the Ex-Cerberus scientists have been rescued.
An asari consultant seeking the Rings of Alune, with which more asari support in the hospital can be obtained. (After the attack on the Citadel)
Shop:

Sirta Supplies




Lab Services
An asari doctor trying to contact Jon Grissom Academy, about their new biotic amp interfaces. (Before the attack on the Citadel)
Two doctors, a human and a salarian, trying to work out new treatment plans for chemical burns. (After the attack on the Citadel)




Inpatient Wing
Ashley Williams or Kaidan Alenko recovering from their injuries sustained during the mission on Mars.
An asari doctor tending to an injured human Alliance marine. (before the attack on the Citadel)
Thane Krios on his deathbed after the attack on the Citadel.




Examination Rooms
A salarian doctor seeking biotic upgrade schematics. (Before the attack on the Citadel)
A salarian doctor talking to turian military command about one of their generals who was stabbed with a poisoned blade by Cerberus. (After the attack on the Citadel)

Side Missions[]
Citadel: Alien Medi-Gel Formula
Citadel: Batarian Codes (Terminal location)
Citadel: Biotic Amp Interfaces
Citadel: Cerberus Turian Poison
Citadel: Chemical Treatment
Silean Nebula: Rings of Alune
Ismar Frontier: Prototype Components



