


For the Human Adept in Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer, see Human Adept.
For the Ex-Cerberus Human Male Adept, see Project Phoenix Adept.


Human Adept





							Male
							
						



							Female
							
						



















Race
Human


Rarity
Common


Availability
Starting Character



A powerful biotic with light armor who uses powers to control crowds and cause widespread damage.
Male: The Human Adept doesn't really talk about why he joined the Initiative; in fact, he doesn't talk much at all. Given the quiet intensity with which he rips through enemies, none of his teammates are rushing to ask about his past.
Female: The Human Adept doesn't much care about the romance of settling a new galaxy. What she sees here is a power vacuum—and she's damn well going to fill it.

Contents

1 Skills and stats
2 Player Notes

2.1 General Notes
2.2 Kett
2.3 Outlaw
2.4 Remnant




Skills and stats[]





 Health: 500     Shields: 250


Powers

Singularity


Pull


Shockwave


Passives

Offensive Biotics


Barrier


Veteran Bonus


Melee

Biotic Punch


Bonus Stat

Health Regeneration Cap


Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
The Human Adept depends more on their powers than their guns. As such, they can only carry up to 30 weight units' worth of guns without slowing their recharge speed.
The Human Adept somewhat lacks direct countermeasures against shields and armor, and can only affect significant damage through exposure to biotic explosions or continuous gunfire.
Pull or Singularity can prime biotic explosions while Shockwave can set them off. Shockwave can also prime explosions at rank 6. Pull and Singularity can be configured to be anti-shield, while Shockwave can be configured to deal more damage to armor at rank 6 instead of being another primer.
Kett[]

Outlaw[]

Remnant[]





Mass Effect: Andromeda Multiplayer and APEX HQ







Common

Human Adept • Human Engineer • Human Infiltrator • Human Sentinel • Human Soldier • Human Vanguard


Uncommon

Asari Adept • Asari Sentinel • Krogan Engineer • Krogan Vanguard • Salarian Infiltrator • Turian Soldier


Rare

Angara Insurgent • Asari Huntress • Batarian Scrapper • Human Artificer • Human Commando • Human Guardian • Human Juggernaut • Krogan Mercenary • Salarian Architect • Turian Agent • Turian Havoc Trooper


Ultra Rare

Angara Avenger • Angara Exemplar • Asari Duelist • Batarian Vanguard • Human Kineticist • Krogan Gladiator • Salarian Operator




