


For the Human Vanguard in Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer, see Human Vanguard.


Human Vanguard





							Female
							
						



							Male
							
						



















Race
Human


Rarity
Common


Availability
Starting Character


Biotic charger that can travel to enemies in the blink of an eye, then deal point-blank damage.
Female: The Human Female Vanguard was a respected leader within the Alliance, so Initiative leaders recruited her to organize and establish security organizations in Andromeda. APEX is more than the "segue to eventual retirement" she'd anticipated, but she's good at her job and respected by the team.
Male: The Human Vanguard is a talented Alliance veteran who hopes he can relive his glory days in Andromeda. He often gives advice to the younger members of the team and loves to say, "I told you so."

Skills and stats[]





 Health: 500     Shields: 250


Powers

Charge


Nova


Shockwave


Passives

APEX Training


Barrier


Veteran Bonus


Melee

Biotic Punch


Bonus Stat

Max Health


Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
A biotic charger with crowd control powers, the Human Vanguard devastates swarms of weaker enemies. Most vanguards like to stay mobile, and the Human Vanguard is no exception.
Nova and Shockwave can fill the same niche here, so focusing on one is probably a good idea.
Shotguns with a Shotgun Melee Mod attachment are a solid choice for this class, to maximize the damage they inflict at close range.
Because vanguards are close combat-oriented, taking on floating ranged enemies head-on is a risky proposition and should only be done if there's little to no chance of retaliation. Mid-to long-range pistols or assault rifles can whittle them down from afar, but it is advisable to have some skills allocated for weight capacity to allow for a shotgun main weapon and a long-range backup.
The Human Vanguard has two detonator powers although their priming skills are only reachable through level 6 evolutions. Investing in ammo boosters is recommended to get around this shortcoming.
Kett[]
Beware when charging Fiends or Ascendants, as both have melee attacks that can insta-kill.
Outlaw[]
Hydras are too well armored to take head-on, and have an insta-kill melee attack that can punish over-aggressive vanguards.
Remnant[]
Observers tend to spawn in large amounts. If one somehow survives a Human Vanguard's close quarters onslaught especially on higher difficulties, it is best to find cover out of their sight quickly and bring them down from a distance before their beams lock on.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Multiplayer and APEX HQ







Common

Human Adept • Human Engineer • Human Infiltrator • Human Sentinel • Human Soldier • Human Vanguard


Uncommon

Asari Adept • Asari Sentinel • Krogan Engineer • Krogan Vanguard • Salarian Infiltrator • Turian Soldier


Rare

Angara Insurgent • Asari Huntress • Batarian Scrapper • Human Artificer • Human Commando • Human Guardian • Human Juggernaut • Krogan Mercenary • Salarian Architect • Turian Agent • Turian Havoc Trooper


Ultra Rare

Angara Avenger • Angara Exemplar • Asari Duelist • Batarian Vanguard • Human Kineticist • Krogan Gladiator • Salarian Operator




