


For the Human Sentinel in Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer, see Human Sentinel.


Human Sentinel





							Female
							
						



							Male
							
						



















Race
Human


Rarity
Common


Availability
Starting Character



Tactical defense expert with sturdy tech armor and a versatile power set.
Female: Excited to seek adventure, this is the Human Sentinel's first time testing her combat skills in a real-life situation. She's very skilled, and what she lacks in experience, she makes up for in enthusiasm.
Male: The Human Sentinel is a seasoned professional; he's been there and done that. Nothing surprises him, even in a brand-new galaxy.

Skills and stats[]





 Health: 500     Shields: 250


Powers

Throw


Barricade


Energy Drain


Passives

Weapon Training


Tech Armor


Veteran Bonus


Melee

Omni-Blade


Bonus Stat

Health & Shield Regen Delay Reduction


Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
As a jack of all trade character (having Combat, Tech, and Biotic abilities) he/she is very fluid in the types of builds and roles it can be deployed in.
Barricade is as functional at 1 point invested as it is at 75 points. Use it to block doorways or walkways, protect yourself while rezing/ devices, protection during evac and to block all enemies except for Hydras, Destroyers and Fiends. Invested in it can stun (and prime) with the Rank 6 Electric Defense. Power cell ability means it can be spammed.
All three abilities can prime targets with Rank 5 option on Throw and Energy Drain; Rank 6 for Barricade. Throw and Energy Drain can detonate combo primers.
Sentinels can gain +43% weapon damage increase (Weapon Training and Barricade) and 30% weapon accuracy and stability (Weapon Training and Tech Armor).
Kett[]

Outlaw[]

Remnant[]





Mass Effect: Andromeda Multiplayer and APEX HQ







Common

Human Adept • Human Engineer • Human Infiltrator • Human Sentinel • Human Soldier • Human Vanguard


Uncommon

Asari Adept • Asari Sentinel • Krogan Engineer • Krogan Vanguard • Salarian Infiltrator • Turian Soldier


Rare

Angara Insurgent • Asari Huntress • Batarian Scrapper • Human Artificer • Human Commando • Human Guardian • Human Juggernaut • Krogan Mercenary • Salarian Architect • Turian Agent • Turian Havoc Trooper


Ultra Rare

Angara Avenger • Angara Exemplar • Asari Duelist • Batarian Vanguard • Human Kineticist • Krogan Gladiator • Salarian Operator




