


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 


Human Guardian






Race
Human


Rarity
Rare


Availability
Unlockable


Biotic/Sentinel tank, specializing in defending and restoring his comrades.
The Guardian was an elite Alliance soldier, deployed when a dangerous situation required the best and brightest. A master of defensive tactics, he became popular among his squadmates. Over the years, he and the Commando became close, although duty required they keep their personal relationship hidden from their comrades. The Andromeda Initiative struck them as a perfect way to serve while living as partners -- on and off the field.
The Human Guardian joins the Nexus militia forces during the in need of heroes APEX missions in Heleus Cluster.

Skills and stats[]





 Health: 550     Shields: 300


Powers

Backlash


Shield Boost


Warp


Passives

APEX Training


Barrier


Veteran Bonus


Melee

Kett Carfalon


Bonus Stat

Max Shields


Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
The Guardian's skills are oriented towards keeping him alive via near-continuous replenishment of shields even in the face of constant enemy fire. Coupled with the Carfalon's healing every successful strike, he is a viable "tanky" close range to melee attacker.
Aside from weapons, Warp is the only reliable long-range skill in the Guardian's arsenal.
One of the Guardian's core skill loops, highly mutable depending on the scenario, is:
Backlash the enemy's fire against them
If the Guardian's kinetic barrier breaks, use Shield Boost to replenish
Deal a Warp afterward and/or close in for the kill
The Guardian's initial weight allocation is 30. This allows for equipping lightweight guns only or Level X and above variants of anything a bit heavier without sacrificing cooldown speed. APEX Training can extend that to a total of 39, which can allow for single-carry of the heaviest weapons but only if they're highly upgraded as well.
Equipping the Supply Pack Transmitter benefits all teammates if they're close together, during Hack or Upload objectives for example. The Guardian's pronounced tendency to take damage leads to a pronounced tendency to use supplies, so everyone else is also healed/revived/replenished.
As with several characters, the Guardian dashes by biotically "teleporting" across short distances. Peculiar level architecture, particularly ramps with substantial gaps above and below, may result in the Guardian ending up in unexpected places.
Kett[]
The Guardian performs well against Wraiths bunched together, as they likely would while they're trying to flank. Carfalon swipes ensure any health lost from them or from other units firing won't be an issue.
Backlash is recommended when dealing with Anointed and Ascendants to short-circuit their continuous attack and staggering orb, respectively.
Outlaw[]
Sharpshooters often fall outside the Guardian's effective range. Other than equipping the appropriate long-range weapons, dealing with them entails using Backlash when targeted then quickly overrunning their position.
The large number of armored outlaws make them easy prey for Warp.
Remnant[]
The bots primarily attack from range. Without accurate long-range weapons, Guardians have to compensate by getting closer while flinging Warp for preliminary damage.
Nullifiers are particularly vulnerable to the typical Guardian playstyle: their siege pulse can be reflected back at them, they're armored and thus more susceptible to Warp, and at close quarters they often disengage their blast shield to attempt to fight at melee, at which point the Guardian can simply regenerate any damage taken through Carfalon hits or opt to blast away with hard-hitting guns.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Multiplayer and APEX HQ







Common

Human Adept • Human Engineer • Human Infiltrator • Human Sentinel • Human Soldier • Human Vanguard


Uncommon

Asari Adept • Asari Sentinel • Krogan Engineer • Krogan Vanguard • Salarian Infiltrator • Turian Soldier


Rare

Angara Insurgent • Asari Huntress • Batarian Scrapper • Human Artificer • Human Commando • Human Guardian • Human Juggernaut • Krogan Mercenary • Salarian Architect • Turian Agent • Turian Havoc Trooper


Ultra Rare

Angara Avenger • Angara Exemplar • Asari Duelist • Batarian Vanguard • Human Kineticist • Krogan Gladiator • Salarian Operator




