







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.











Hunter Kerry
Reconstruction Specialist

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Hunter Kerry is one of three newly-defrosted specialists during the second wave of cryostasis revivals on Hyperion. 

Background[]
The man with a New Zealand accent used to work in his family's business. When his grandfather died his relatives squabbled over dividing the inheritance. Hunter hated his family so much he signed up with the Andromeda Initiative; he figured he can skip Thanksgivings from as far away as humanly possible. 
Hunter believed his family had no reason to react as they did in response to grief. He ultimately settled for the same reason as many other colonists: a fresh start for all involved and the power to build his own future.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Several weeks after the ark's crash-landing on Meridian, Pathfinder Ryder can talk to Darla vas Hyperion and in the process learn about her, Hunter, and Iora Pillay. Hunter is tasked with turning the Hyperion into the "future-proud human capital." Iora balks at the oversimplification, so Hunter explains why he likes it: it's a structural and organizational nightmare, meaning job security for him. He invites Ryder to return in a year and promises Port Meridian will become a galactic hub, seamlessly integrated with the artificial world.
Hunter's rather blunt and doesn't stand much on paperwork and formalities, putting him at some odds with Darla and Iora.


On subsequent visits to Meridian, Hunter can be found standing next to Jaal Ama Darav. He takes up Jaal's offer to exchange tech hacks some time, being impressed with the angara's modified Lanat. Midconversation while Ryder's passing through, Hunter has no opinion on something Jaal asked as he was only let out of stasis recently. He takes a liking to Jaal when the angara tells him it's strange someone of his expertise hasn't been awakened immediately.
If the Pathfinder talks to him, he's hard at work getting multi-species tech to integrate with each other. He has learned there's a lot he doesn't know about Meridian, knowing he's lost without SAM's assistance. If asked what Meridian needs, Hunter urges Ryder to find more Remnant vaults. He thinks there's at least one still active, but unconnected to the system. If that's taken care of, the entire system becomes more efficient, resulting in more stability in Meridian.




