


Cora's message mentioned a potential breakthrough in the search for the asari ark.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Read email from Cora
2.2 Speak with Cora on the Tempest
2.3 Take Cora to speak with Hydaria on Eos
2.4 Go to Voeld to track the Periphona's signal
2.5 Find the Periphona
2.6 Find the source of the Periphona's signal
2.7 Find the Periphona's transponder
2.8 Wait for Cora to decipher the transponder


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Helping Havarl's Scientists

Prerequisite: Meet the Resistance

This mission requires the completion of either one of the above.

Walkthrough[]
Read email from Cora[]
Note: Technically it isn't required to read the email to talk to Cora about this mission, although this step will then be marked as [FAILED].




Asari refugees!
To: Ryder
From: Cora

Ryder,

There's a report of asari refugees on Eos. They made it! Might know about their ark, too. Let's talk when you're free?


Cora.


Speak with Cora on the Tempest[]
Go to the Tempest and speak with Cora. She reports that an asari officer named Hydaria at Prodromos could have leads to the asari ark Leusinia. Cora is also excited about the possibility of Sarissa Theris being there.

Take Cora to speak with Hydaria on Eos[]
Hydaria says that the asari ark was hunted by kett elite forces aiming to capture the defenseless ark. She tells them that Sarissa gave the evacuation order. Many on the ark were killed and some managed to escape.
The location of the ark is unknown. However, a ship named the Periphona was launched from the ark to help those who escaped. Hydaria suggests that Pathfinder Ryder follow the ship's transponder signal, and gives the transponder codes and flight plan to Ryder. The trail leads to the angaran planet Voeld.
There is a container in the room with Hydaria.

Go to Voeld to track the Periphona's signal[]
When driving eastwards from the Angaran Resistance Base, at certain point a signal from the Periphona is detected by SAM. Continue on to the navpoint to the east-southeast.

Find the Periphona[]
Go to the navpoint. There is no trace of the Periphona there. SAM concludes that ice and minerals are reflecting the signal. 

Find the source of the Periphona's signal[]
SAM puts four markers on the map. Some of them lead to other reflected signals. You will have to search until finding the right location. At each false location you will find Lithium, Iridium and Platinum ore nodes. Head directly east of the navpoint you just found. The right location will be on the far east side of the map from the navpoint. There will be kett forces at the correct point, so clear them out.
After the battle, there is a Kett Core Encryption Tech that can be scanned for +100 .

Find the Periphona's transponder[]
Once the kett are eliminated, scan the transponder, and then interact with it. There is a recording from the Periphona's captain indicating the ark was attacked by the kett. The flight recorder is in bad shape, but with time, valuable data about the ark's flight path could be discovered.
You receive +1330 XP, +29 AVP , and 2% Voeld viability.

Wait for Cora to decipher the transponder[]
The mission is set as ON HOLD while the restoration work is going on. The following items will need to be completed for Cora to decipher the transponder to continue the mission:

Land at Kadara Port on Kadara.
Return at any time to the Tempest and complete the meeting called by Nakmor Drack.
Walk close to the email terminal on the Tempest and you will notified about new email.



The Asari Ark
To: Ryder
From: Cora 

Ryder, 

Had a breakthrough on the location of the asari ark. Please, come talk to me on the Tempest ASAP. 


Cora.


The mission is complete after reading the email.

Aftermath[]
The follow-up mission Cora Harper: At Duty's Edge begins automatically.
Also, after Drack's meeting on the Tempest, two other missions are started: Elaaden: A New World and H-047c: A New World.

Rewards[]
None



