









Ian Newstead




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Armament
Pistol


Abilities
Unknown


Health
Low


Shields
Very Low


Locations
Feros


Ian Newstead is one of the colonists at Zhu's Hope, on Feros. Unlike the rest of the colonists, Ian dithers around in the tunnels beneath the settlement.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Commander Shepard can encounter Newstead after fighting the geth that are present in the tunnels. Newstead acts strangely: as he talks to Shepard, he occasionally screams in pain, maniacally laughing at his suffering. If questioned about this behaviour, Newstead cheerfully responds that he is "just invoking the master's whip!" Shepard's squad conclude that he is insane. If Fai Dan is asked about Newstead, he replies that Ian is sick, and that he and the other colonists are unable to help him. When pressed on the matter, Fai Dan refuses to discuss the issue further.
Like the other Zhu's Hope colonists, Newstead has been infected with Thorian spores, and is being negatively reinforced into obeying the Thorian's wishes. However, he seems extraordinarily strong-willed, and able to tolerate the pain. Despite the agony, he insists on attempting to tell Shepard about the Thorian, saying the geth are a "thorn in the side of the -" and describing his fight as like "running through a thorn bush", before the pain overwhelms him. 
During the assault on Zhu's Hope, Newstead is among the colonists the Thorian rallies to defend itself, having come up from the tunnels. He fights with May O'Connell in the Mako garage in an attempt to stop Shepard from returning to the colony. 
After the Thorian's death, Shepard can speak to Newstead in the medical room of the freighter if his life is spared. Ian is relieved and grateful to have his own mind back, noting no one should ever experience pain like he did. He quips he needs a vacation.

Trivia[]
Ian is voiced by Tim Conlon.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





