


The Idenna is a starship of the quarian Migrant Fleet. She is a thirty-year-old ship, a decommissioned batarian Hensa-class cruiser, and has a crew of 693 (in comparison, Alliance cruisers of comparative size have crews of about 80). The Idenna also has several scout vessels at her command, including the Bavea and the Cyniad. 

Contents

1 Mass Effect: Ascension
2 Mass Effect 2
3 Mass Effect: Deception
4 Notable Crewmembers
5 Trivia







“Salvation comes with a cost.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Ascension follow.




Mass Effect: Ascension[]
The Idenna was a safe refuge for Kahlee Sanders, Gillian Grayson and Hendel Mitra when they came aboard the Migrant Fleet. Her captain was known as something of a maverick and a visionary, wanting to use vessels from the Migrant Fleet to search for new homeworlds. 
After the Idenna was attacked by Cerberus, this policy was finally accepted by the Admiralty Board and the Idenna was chosen as one of the first vessels to leave the Flotilla. In preparation for this mission, the Idenna's crew was reduced from 694 (including the newest crew member, Lemm'Shal nar Tesleya) to around 50, and she was extensively refitted with new technology to enable her to survive five years without outside contact.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
The Cyniad crashed on Gei Hinnom (Sheol System, Hades Nexus), killing the commanding officer, Lieutenant Commander Gorlat vas Idenna. Eventually, the varren on the planet killed off the rest of the crew, leaving only Lieutenant Forzan vas Idenna, who was saved by Commander Shepard and the Normandy SR-2. Captain Ysin'Mal vas Idenna sent Shepard a message of thanks for the Normandy's efforts in furthering the search for a new quarian homeworld.







“But what about my father? What happened to him?” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Deception follow.




Mass Effect: Deception[]
Note: This section features material from the first edition of Mass Effect: Deception, which BioWare has acknowledged contains discrepancies with other Mass Effect lore. Once revised editions of the book are released, this section will be updated.
The Idenna comes under attack from a batarian slave ship, the Glory of Khar'shan. The quarian ship uses disruptor torpedoes and mass accelerator cannons to try to destroy the slave ship at range, but the space battle is lost after the Glory of Khar'shan deploys "drive killers" that stop the Idenna in its tracks, allowing a boarding party to move in. The Idenna's security force, including Gillian Grayson and Hendel Mitra, repel the boarders and manage to turn the tables, resulting in the batarian ship's capture.

Notable Crewmembers[]
Captain Ysin'Mal vas Idenna
Lieutenant Forzan vas Idenna
Seeto'Hodda nar Idenna
Feda'Gazu vas Idenna
Hilo'Jaa vas Idenna
Lita'Orn nar Idenna
Lemm'Shal nar Tesleya
Gillian Grayson
Hendel Mitra
Trivia[]
The Idenna's "five year mission" may be a reference to the famous mission of the Enterprise from the original Star Trek.



