


Do random stuff that has no bearing on the mission at handWait for the fallout1/2A cache of transported goods stolen by the transport operator was found and reported to Mr. Thax, the owner of the goods.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough
3 Aftermath
4 Mission Summary
5 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Dossier: The Justicar

During the mission to recruit Samara, once you've gotten permission from Detective Anaya to visit the crime scene where the justicar is, go past the police tape and the two police officers. To the right is a terminal displaying a shipping note. The text reads:


“Eria, let's consider this extra stock surplus. Ship the rest to Thax at his normal destination. He'll never miss a few lost pieces.”


You have a choice to upload the message to Mr. Thax or to cancel. Uploading the message activates the assignment.

Walkthrough[]

Return to Nos Astra after recruiting Samara. An urbane krogan will immediately approach Commander Shepard and ask if you're responsible for sending the shipping note to Mr. Thax. You get 2 Paragon points for admitting to sending the message or 2 Renegade points for being evasive. In either case, you automatically earn an additional 5 Renegade points.

Aftermath[]
The asari responsible for diverting Mr. Thax's goods can be found in the center of the transportation hub prior to even starting this assignment's parent mission. She can be overheard talking to an accomplice. She can't get to the stolen merchandise because it's at the crime scene which has been sealed off.
After completion of this assignment, the asari can be overheard telling her accomplice to give Mr. Thax a full refund and then to go someplace safe. If you finished the recruitment mission without uploading the message, the asari will instead remark about the success of her skimming operation.

Mission Summary[]
Experience reward: 40 (50)
Credits: 1,500
Trivia[]
Thax Vorak, a male Krogan, is a notable Citadel business magnate. He is also involved in the story related by the Profiles in Courage Special Edition.



