




Ilos

Region
Milky Way / Pangaea Expanse / Refuge





Planet View


Orbital Period
261 Earth Days


Radius
8,607 km


Day Length
54.5 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
11.26 atm


Surface Temp
38 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.17 g


Mass
2.115 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Pangaea Expanse / Refuge System /  Second planet
Prerequisite: Completion of all missions on major plot worlds — Therum, Feros, Noveria, Virmire

Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Additional Information
4 Missions
5 Lifeforms
6 Trivia


Description[]
In the golden age of the Protheans, Ilos was a verdant world, dotted with the spires and arches of magnificent cities. Even casual observation shows this is no longer the case. Ilos has been devastated by means unknown, its entire surface changed to the color of rust. The atmosphere shows heightened levels of oxygen. Wildfires, presumably ignited by lightning strikes, can be seen burning on the dark side. This indicates that most - if not all - respirating animal life forms have died off. Surface gravity is a comfortable 1.17 standard G's.


Codex Entry[]





Audio: Iloshttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Ilos_Codex.ogg

Like the ancient human city of Troy, Ilos is a world known only through second-hand sources. References to Ilos have been found at several other Prothean ruins, though direct study of the world is unlikely to occur.
Ilos lies in a remote area of the Terminus Systems only accessible by the legendary Mu Relay. Four thousand years ago, the Mu Relay was knocked out of position by a supernova and lost. Since then, Ilos and its cluster have been inaccessible.
Occasionally, a university will organize an expedition to chart a route to Ilos using conventional FTL drive. These never get beyond the planning stages due to the distance and danger. The journey could take years or decades, passing through the hostile Terminus Systems and dozens of unexplored systems.









“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.









“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.









“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Additional Information[]
According to Tali, the Migrant Fleet expended some effort in searching for Ilos as the quarians once considered it a settlement prospect.
If the Citadel Council did not survive the Battle of the Citadel, a news report in 2185 will mention that the Alliance's Fifth Fleet makes a stop at Ilos during a tour of the Attican Traverse. Ilos is now being studied by salarian researchers, who protest the Alliance's use of dreadnoughts as an intimidation tactic. If the Council survived, however, the news report instead states that the salarian researchers applaud the Alliance's help in keeping them safe: the batarian government has been demanding that the relics from Ilos be made available for them to study.  
Liara T'Soni owns a painting of Ilos, which can be seen in her apartment on Illium.
The Prothean Javik, if he has been reawakened in 2186, reveals that Ilos was once inhabited by the extinct inusannon before the Protheans discovered the world and colonized it themselves.

Missions[]
Mission: Ilos: Find the Conduit
Mission: Race Against Time: Conduit
Lifeforms[]
Geth Trooper
Geth Sniper
Geth Shock Trooper
Geth Destroyer
Geth Rocket Trooper
Geth Prime
Geth Armature
Geth Hopper
Geth Stalker
Trivia[]
In Greek mythology, Ilos is the founder of the city of "Ilion" or "Illium", which is also known as Troy.
According to The Art of Mass Effect, Ilos was conceptualized as a lush jungle world for much of the game's development. It was revised into its present form out of a need for a more ominous third-act feel.



