


Inferno Armor is a non-customizable bonus armor set available in Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3. The powered Inferno Armor speeds up Shepard's movements and increases tech and biotic power damage; additionally, stress analysis software gives the Commander an edge in negotiations outside of combat. 

Contents

1 Mass Effect 2

1.1 Description
1.2 Acquisition
1.3 Player Notes


2 Mass Effect 3

2.1 Description
2.2 Acquisition
2.3 Player Notes
2.4 Trivia


3 See also


Mass Effect 2[]


Inferno Armor






Effects
+10% Paragon/Renegade Bonus+10% Power Damage+10% Storm Speed


Starting Health
200


Starting Shields
250


Availability
Pre-Order Bonus Item, Cerberus Network



Description[]
Built specifically for Cerberus field officers, the Inferno armor has a VI dedicated to recognizing signs of stress and medical trauma. This application helps assess soldiers, but can be useful in any high-risk situations. The Inferno's microframe computer also manages biotic amp and omni-tool power, and microservos help the wearer's movements to counteract the armor's weight.
Negotiation Bonus +10%
Tech and Biotic Power Damage +10%
Storm Speed +10%

Acquisition[]
The Inferno Armor is available as a pre-ordered bonus item through any retailer other than Gamestop and is also available in the Equalizer Pack via Cerberus Network.
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition it can be researched in the Normandy's Tech Lab at a cost of 2,500 Palladium.
The item has an accompanying e-mail message for confirmation of availability.




From: Illusive ManShepard,


Miranda recommended we send you our Inferno armor. It's been well-received by our squad leaders in the Verge, and so I'm passing a suit along to you. It should be aboard the Normandy by now -- check your quarters when you've got a free moment.


Player Notes[]
The bonus to tech and biotic damage is valuable for Sentinels, Engineers and Adepts who rely more on powers to deal damage.
The bonus to storm speed can be very useful in certain missions but there may be better ways to obtain the bonus such as from the Stimulator Conduits leg armor piece.
Mass Effect 3[]


Inferno Armor






Effects
+30% Power Recharge Speed+30% Power Damage


Availability
Kassa Fabrication



Description[]
Built specifically for Cerberus field officers, the Inferno armor has a VI dedicated to recognizing signs of stress and medical trauma. This application helps assess soldiers, but can be useful in any high risk situations. The Inferno's microframe computer also manages biotic amp and omni-tool power, and microservos help the wearer's movements to counteract the armor's weight.

Acquisition[]
The Inferno Armor can be purchased from Kassa Fabrication in the Presidium Commons for 50,000 credits without discounts, or through the Procurement terminals located in the Normandy's shuttle bay or Armax Arsenal Arena for 55,000 credits without discounts.

Player Notes[]
Power oriented classes will be able to utilize this armor to its full potential, maximizing their powers abilities at the cost of other defensive capabilities and weapon damage bonuses. This armor may be preferable over the Blood Dragon armor for Engineers and Adepts due to the fact that those two classes will be sticking to cover as much as possible, somewhat nullifying the shield boost of the Blood Dragon armor.
As power recharge speed bonuses have diminishing returns, the Inferno Armor's power recharge speed bonus has significantly less of a benefit for a character who has a very high power recharge speed bonus from a light loadout than characters with heavier loadouts.
The Inferno Armor is a very attractive set candidate for Sentinels. The class's signature tech armor can make up for the lack of defensive armor bonuses as well as stack with the power damage bonuses, and the generous power recharge lends some leeway for sentinels looking to tote heavier weapons.
Trivia[]
The Inferno Armor bears a strong resemblance to one of the Envirosuits from the first Red Faction game.
See also[]
Mass Effect 2 Arsenal: Armor[Dead link]




Mass Effect 2 Armor




Armor Customization • Armor Upgrades


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Assault Armor • Collector Chitin Armor  Inferno Armor • Terminus Armor • Kestrel Armor





Mass Effect 2 Downloadable Content




Promotional

Blood Dragon Armor • Collectors' Weapon and Armor • Inferno Armor  M-29 Incisor Sniper Rifle • Terminus Weapon and Armor


Cerberus Network

Zaeed - The Price of Revenge • Normandy Crash Site  Cerberus Weapon and Armor • Arc Projector • Firewalker Pack


Missions

Kasumi - Stolen Memory • Overlord • Lair of the Shadow Broker • Arrival


Additional Content

Alternate Appearance Packs •  Equalizer Pack • Aegis Pack • Firepower Pack  Mass Effect: Genesis • Recon Operations Pack • N7 Complete Arsenal Bundle





Mass Effect 3 Armor




Armor Customization


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Ajax Armor • Cerberus Armor • Cerberus Nightmare ArmorCerberus Shade Armor • Cerberus Spirit Armor • Collector Armor • Inferno Armor • N7 Defender ArmorReckoner Knight Armor • Terminus Assault Armor




