






This article is about the class in Mass Effect, Mass Effect 2, Mass Effect 3, and Mass Effect: Andromeda. For other uses, see Infiltrator (disambiguation).

Contents

1 Mass Effect

1.1 Talents
1.2 Class Talent


2 Mass Effect 2

2.1 Weapons Training
2.2 Powers


3 Mass Effect 3

3.1 Powers
3.2 Weight Capacity


4 Mass Effect: Andromeda
5 See also


Mass Effect[]
The Infiltrator is a tech-savvy warrior, able to win battles by quickly disabling and killing enemies. These soldiers focus on unlocking alternate routes, gaining access to good equipment, and obtaining an advantageous position over enemies in combat.
Infiltrators possess a mixture of combat and tech talents. They may gain specialist training with pistols and sniper rifles, and they begin with light armor but can potentially train in the use of medium armor. They can equip advanced models of omni-tool to increase their tech prowess.
The Infiltrator class talent reduces heat buildup with pistols and sniper rifles while increasing damage for tech proximity mine explosions.

Talents[]
See also: Talents#Class Specific





Class: Infiltrator


 Pistols




 Sniper Rifles

Unlocked at Pistols 5


 Tactical Armor




 Fitness

Unlocked at Tactical Armor 6


 Electronics




 Damping

Unlocked at Electronics 4


 Decryption




 First Aid

Unlocked at Decryption 7








Class Talent[]
The Infiltrator class talent increases ability with pistols and sniper rifles, and the explosion damage of tech mines. An Infiltrator can specialize into Commando or Operative giving them access to levels 7 - 12.
Each point spent in the Infiltrator talent gives abilities as listed below:

Reduces heat buildup on pistols and sniper rifles by 5%. Increases the tech proximity mine explosion damage of Sabotage, Overload, and Damping by 5%.
Reduces heat buildup on pistols and sniper rifles by 6%. Increases tech explosion damage by 7%.
Reduces heat buildup on pistols and sniper rifles by 7%. Increases tech explosion damage by 9%.
Reduces heat buildup on pistols and sniper rifles by 8%. Increases tech explosion damage by 11%.
Reduces heat buildup on pistols and sniper rifles by 9%. Increases tech explosion damage by 13%.
Reduces heat buildup on pistols and sniper rifles by 10%. Increases tech explosion damage by 15%.
Mass Effect 2[]
Infiltrators are tech and combat specialists with the unique ability to cloak themselves from visual and technological detection. Deadly at any range, Infiltrators are equipped with a wide variety of weapons, equipment and powers that can take down any enemy. When using sniper rifles, time slows down for a brief moment similar to the Soldier's Adrenaline Rush, allowing for easier placement of shots.
Weapons Training[]
Heavy Pistols
Sniper Rifles
Submachine Guns
Heavy Weapons
Powers[]





Class: Infiltrator


 Disruptor Ammo




 Cryo Ammo

Unlocked at Disruptor Ammo 2


 Tactical Cloak




 Incinerate

Unlocked at Tactical Cloak 2


 AI Hacking

Unlocked at Incinerate 2


 Operative










Mass Effect 3[]
Infiltrators are tech and combat specialists with the unique ability to cloak themselves from visual and technological detection. Their inventory is stacked with a wide variety of weapons, equipment, and powers. Infiltrators are deadly at any range, but particularly so with a sniper rifle. When scoping a target, superior reflexes take over, time momentarily slows down, and the Infiltrator finds an easy picking.

Powers[]





Class: Infiltrator


 Disruptor Ammo




 Cryo Ammo

Unlocked at Level 3


 Incinerate

Unlocked at Level 6


 Tactical Cloak




 Sticky Grenade

Unlocked at Level 3


 Sabotage

Unlocked at Level 6


 Operational Mastery




 Fitness

Unlocked at Level 3








Weight Capacity[]
See also: Weight Capacity
The Infiltrator has a weight capacity bonus of 15 at Level 1 of Operational Mastery, increasing to 35 at Level 2. A maximum capacity bonus of 70 is achievable by choosing the 'Weight Capacity' upgrade at Level 5 of Operational Mastery. This puts the Infiltrator in league with the Sentinel and Vanguard, lower than the Soldier but higher than the Adept and Engineer.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]

Main article: Profiles
Mass Effect: Andromeda no longer uses the class system of a locked in character "class" chosen at the beginning of gameplay but uses flexible Profiles instead. 
Pathfinder Ryder has the ability to change profiles at anytime (including during combat). This allows a vastly larger amount of customization than seen in prior Mass Effect games.
The Infilitrator profile is one of seven profiles available to Ryder.
Infiltrators are tech and combat specialists who typically focus on precise hits and avoidance.
This profile enhances Ryder's mental and visual acuity, allowing him/her to keep track of his/her enemies throughout a chaotic battle.
Bonus power - BATTLEFIELD AWARENESS: Observe enemies through walls when using a scope.
Bonus power - CLOAK EVADES: When evading, a brief cloaking device is activated.

See also[]
Commando
Operative
Infiltrator Guide
Infiltrator Guide (Mass Effect 2)
Infiltrator Guide (Mass Effect 3)




Classes




Soldier • Engineer • Adept • Infiltrator • Vanguard • Sentinel



Mass Effect Talents


Biotic

Barrier • Lift • Singularity • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Assault Rifles • Pistols • Shotguns • Sniper Rifles • Assault Training • Fitness • Basic Armor • Combat Armor • Tactical Armor


Tech

Damping • Decryption • Electronics • First Aid • Hacking • Medicine


Class

Adept • Asari Scientist • Engineer • Infiltrator • Krogan Battlemaster • Quarian Machinist • Sentinel • Soldier • Turian Agent • Vanguard


Player only

Charm • Intimidate • Spectre Training




