




Intai'sei

Region
Milky Way / Argos Rho / Phoenix





Planet View


Orbital Distance
15.68 AU


Orbital Period
47.8 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
1.687


Radius
5,897 km


Day Length
27.6 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.95 atm


Surface Temp
46 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.8 g


Mass
0.679 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Argos Rho / Phoenix System /  Third planet


Colony

Species
Human


Capital
Thoreau Mesa


Colony Founded
2166 CE


Population
150000



Prerequisite: Pinnacle Station: Combat Missions (Mass Effect)

Prerequisite: Priority: Geth Dreadnought (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Missions
3 Assignments
4 Search and Rescue
5 Additional Information
6 Trivia


Description[]
An atmosphere similar to Earth's made Intai'sei an early candidate for human colonization. However, prohibitively high temperatures and an arid climate have proven a hindrance to terraforming and agriculture. A few human cities were founded, but the majority of the human population on Intai'sei remains scattered across the vast deserts, operating wind farms and geological research stations.

Missions[]
Mission: Citadel: Kakliosaur Fossil
Assignments[]
Assignment: Pinnacle Station: Convoy
Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Artifact: Fossilized Kakliosaur
Additional Information[]
Admiral Ahern has a retirement home on Intai'sei that he doesn't plan on using anytime soon. It's a prefab dropped by ExoGeni Corporation on a quiet and remote location. Ahern is willing to wager its ownership upon completion of his special simulator scenario aboard Pinnacle Station. 

Trivia[]
In Mass Effect, Intai'sei was added as the fifth and outermost planet in Phoenix by the Pinnacle Station DLC. However, its ingame orbital stats actually placed it between Tuntau and Sylsalto. This discrepancy was corrected in Mass Effect 3, and Intai'sei was moved from the fifth orbital of the system to the third.
As the Pinnacle Station DLC was cut from Mass Effect Legendary Edition, Intai'sei does not exist anymore in the remastered version of the first game.
The name for the planet may be taken from the Japanese noun "intaiseikatsu" (隠退生活) which means "secluded life." Intai'sei can also be conveniently read in Japanese as 引退星 ("retirement planet").
Intai'sei's capital, Thoreau Mesa, may have been named after Henry David Thoreau, an essayist who extolled the virtues of simple living and a balance between nature and culture.



