






This article is about the interrupt system in Mass Effect: Andromeda. For the interrupt system in Mass Effect 2, see Interrupt. For the interrupt system in Mass Effect 3, see Interrupt (Mass Effect 3).

Narrative Actions are prompts that may appear in the middle of conversations in Mass Effect: Andromeda, similar to the interrupt system used in the original trilogy. As with the last two Mass Effect games, narrative actions allow the player character - this time Pathfinder Ryder - to take direct, often physical, action at certain moments in conversations. 

Contents

1 Mechanics
2 Narrative Actions

2.1 Priority Ops

2.1.1 A Better Beginning
2.1.2 A Trail of Hope II
2.1.3 Hunting the Archon


2.2 Allies and Relationships

2.2.1 Vetra Nyx: Means and Ends
2.2.2 Liam Kosta: All In


2.3 Heleus Assignments

2.3.1 Night on the Town
2.3.2 High Noon






Mechanics[]
A narrative action appears during an appropriate moment. There is a limited amount of time to act before the prompt goes away: if the narrative action is not taken, a fallback action will occur. If it is taken, a soundbite plays in confirmation and an alternate scenario occurs.
Unlike in previous games, narrative actions merely influence a conversation's outcome, since there is no morality system to deal with. Being generous or parsimonious with interrupts affects Dr. Lexi T'Perro's ongoing psychological profile of the Pathfinder, with the final say being apparent by the end of the game.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Narrative Actions[]
This list is incomplete. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
Priority Ops[]
A Better Beginning[]
Main article: A Better Beginning
On activating the first Remnant console SAM suggests doubling the power input to expedite things. An asari sprints in out of nowhere yelling not to do it, tackling Ryder to the ground. She explains the Remnant Glyphs have to be properly cycled through their channels.

If she's pushed off, she playfully remarks the Pathfinder doesn't like being sat on before helping themselves up.
If not, she ends her explanation asking the group to trust her.
In the Remnant vault entrance at the middle of the lake, Peebee wonders aloud about the mechanics of the Gravity Well that just appeared.

Ryder preempts her train of thought and jumps in before her.
If not, she jumps first, forcing the others to follow.
A Trail of Hope II[]
Main article: A Trail of Hope II
If saving the angara was chosen over destroying the exaltation facility, the Cardinal is grateful and thinks Ryder's beginning to appreciate the "gift" the kett intend to give the entire galaxy.

Ryder violently disagrees by shooting the Cardinal in the back.
If not, the Pathfinder lets the Ascendant go before they change their mind. The Cardinal remarks they're true to their word.
Hunting the Archon[]
Main article: Hunting the Archon
During the first meeting with Sloane Kelly in Outcast Headquarters, If Ryder refuses to tell her their reason for visiting, Sloane's aide Kaetus pulls a gun on the Pathfinder.

Ryder disarms the turian, forcing Sloane to draw her own gun. She warns the Pathfinder to get out or she'll put them down. Ryder slowly backs out of Sloane's chamber pointing the gun at her.
If not, Ryder puts up their arms in surrender and slowly backs out of Sloane's chamber. The Outcast leader warns them to mind their tone the next time they want something from her.
Allies and Relationships[]
Vetra Nyx: Means and Ends[]
Main article: Vetra Nyx: Means and Ends
Meriweather forces Ryder and the squad to lay their weapons to the ground else she detonates a grenade in her hand while also holding Sidera Nyx hostage.

Ryder and the squad slowly comply, though at the last minute the Pathfinder shoots the grenade off Meriweather's hand. Vetra quickly catches it then throws it back at Meriweather's goons. Though they're all knocked off-balance, Meriweather's team recovers and she orders her men to kill the intruders.
If not, the Pathfinder team do put down their weapons, though Ryder jabs at Meriweather's criminal deeds and asks if she really came to Heleus just to do those. Meriweather doesn't care for morality, only survival, and chucks the grenade at the Pathfinder team, who quickly jump out of the way.
Liam Kosta: All In[]
Main article: Liam Kosta: All In
While Liam Kosta and Ryder argue aboard the Talon ship, if the "Be professional" option is chosen, Calot appears on the nearby console mid-conversation once and comments on their infighting.

Ryder shoots the console to stop Calot from talking and will continue to chastise Liam.
If not, Ryder and Calot will speak before the latter opens the airlock.
Heleus Assignments[]
Night on the Town[]
Main article: Night on the Town
Ryder catches Reyes Vidal in a stockroom rummaging through Sloane Kelly's stuff. As someone else is approaching Reyes warns they need a distraction.

If pursuing a romance with Reyes, Ryder makes out with him, making the incoming guard uncomfortable as she turns to walk away. If not pursuing a romance with Reyes, Ryder punches him in the gut and claims to the guard he's had too much to drink.
If nothing is done, they simply hide and wait for the guard to take what she needs from the stockroom.
High Noon[]
Main article: High Noon
The Charlatan, revealed to be Reyes Vidal, challenges Sloane Kelly on a one-on-one duel for control of Kadara Port. Ryder spots a light glinting nearby; it turns out Reyes has a sniper nearby to take Sloane out.

Ryder tackles Sloane to save her from being shot, ending the Collective's bid for power.
If not, the sniper shoots Sloane in the back, killing her. Reyes gloats over the misdirect, and the Collective wins Kadara Port.
If Sloane was saved, she shouts at the Pathfinder to shoot at Reyes as he escapes.

Ryder takes a shot but only nicks Reyes in the shoulder. His troops deploy a Nullifier shield to protect against futher attacks, and he manages to reach his getaway transport.
If not, Reyes makes a clean getaway to his transport and waves byebye as it flies off.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Guides




Completion

Walkthrough • Dialogue • Inventory • Experience • Remnant Decryption Puzzles • Hang Time Achievement Guide • Codex Entry Guide (Mass Effect: Andromeda)


Profiles

Soldier • Engineer • Adept • Sentinel • Vanguard • Infiltrator • Explorer


Other

Squad Members • Merchants • Skills • Research • Development • Narrative Actions




