






This article is about the planet named Invictus. For the similarly named turian general, see Invectus.



Invictus

Region
Milky Way / Minos Wasteland / Caestus





Planet View


Orbital Distance
1.3 AU


Orbital Period
1.5 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.976


Radius
7,260 km


Day Length
31.6 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
1.15 atm


Surface Temp
30 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.5 g


Mass
1.929 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Minos Wasteland / Caestus System /  First planet


Colony

Species
Turian


Capital
Shastinasio


Colony Founded
1939


Population
320,535,000 (est. 640,000,000 with illegals)



Prerequisite: Star Chart from Baria Frontiers store (Mass Effect 2)

Description[]
Home to dextro-amino-acid-based life, Invictus' temperate zones were settled by a turian population that initially fell prey to a bewildering number of diseases. Two decades after its first colony was founded, its population had reduced by half due to fatalities and a large colonist exodus. But when the Primarchs considered ceding the planet to robo-mining interests, the turian statesman Shastina Emperus ambitiously declared that she would start her own colony and double its population within five years.
This effort succeeded, largely due to the colonies' location in deserts with a minimal number of pest species. The image of Shastina's triumph in the frontier made for good political theater, and the turian population poured in. The planet's tropical belt still remains largely unexplored, as its aggressive organic life still wreaks havoc on turian biology. A "house in an Invictus jungle" is a modern turian phrase for an idea that seems like a good idea, but only to the one who came up with it.
Invictus' atmosphere is primarily nitrogen and oxygen, and its surface crust varies but has high concentrations of alumina and silver. Because it can support life easily, criminals from throughout the Terminus Systems hide out on Invictus. Its official population is estimated to be half the number of sapients that are actually on the planet.

Mineral Deposits[]
Initial Scanner Result: Rich



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

Medium

8,300


Platinum

High

12,500


Iridium

Medium

7,300


Element Zero

Medium

5,000

Trivia[]
"Invictus" in Latin means unvanquished or unconquered, and its naming could possibly be a reference to the stubborn persistence of the turian colonists, though it could also possibly be seen as metaphorical of the planet's seeming impossibility to colonize.



