







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.











Iora Pillay
Chief of Operations

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Iora Pillay, colonist ID D-46 Chicago, is one of three specialists awakened during the second wave of cryostasis revivals on Hyperion.

Background[]
Sporting a South Asian accent, Iora hails from Chicago. Her colonist ID references her hometown by coincidence, though she also finds it interesting when Pathfinder Ryder mistakes it for the number of human chromosomes. She joined the Andromeda Initiative out of a pioneering desire, and found the allure of being the organizational foundation and Chief of Operations on an ark irresistible.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Several weeks after Hyperion's crash-landing on Meridian, Ryder can talk to Darla vas Hyperion to get to know her, Iora, and their colleague Hunter Kerry. Iora isn't in charge of all of Meridian, but she does oversee the operations and establishment of Port Meridian. Initiative R&D handles the Remnant exploration and study, and it's her job to make sure they get what they need.
On subsequent visits to Meridian, Iora can be intermittently heard reporting one of numerous operational status reports. She herself hangs around Cora Harper, Pelessaria B'Sayle, and Vetra Nyx. Iora is at first irritated at Ryder's interruption if the Pathfinder wants to talk to her. She quickly apologizes when she realizes who she's talking to, as it takes her a few moments to put on a "human" face.
Asked about what she has learned about the world, The Operations Chief reports changes in Remnant ships. Seven of the largest vessels docked at the exterior, left, and were subsequently lost to the Scourge. Regardless of whether Ryder thinks this is a cause for alarm or not, Iora is discomfited about the events. She has read Arthur C. Clarke as a teen, and the ships' actions made her feel small in comparison. Heleus still has its secrets, and she hopes humanity will define its place there.
If Ryder asks what Meridian wants from them, Iora's answer depends on how complete the Pathfinder's job is. If most arks and outposts have been secured and founded, Iora reports they're in spectacular shape and rapidly approaching some sort of normality.


Iora has heard Vetra is the one to speak to when it comes to procuring items for operations. There's no supply problem, but she needs the turian's talents to track down harder-to-find little luxuries. She also wants to thank her for being an essential part of the Pathfinder's team. When Vetra wonders if the Hyperion could be raised again, Iora reckons it will take a few dozen industrial mass effect cores.
Concerning Alec Ryder's memorial, Iora suggests a small one, but Cora opines the entirety of Meridian is one Alec would want.
Peebee nearby thinks out loud and explains she does it most of the time, but Iora isn't bothered and finds it refreshing to gain insight on how her mind works. The Chief of Operations puts up with Peebee's antics goodnaturedly, even when the asari reserves the right to poke her again when Iora inquires what else she needs.




