




Irida Fadeer
Life Support Engineer

Race
Asari


Gender
Feminine


Appearances
Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus UprisingMass Effect: Andromeda


Irida Fadeer is an engineer subordinate of Calix Corvannis. Among friends she's also known as Violet.

Background[]
Before working as an engineer Irida used to be a commando mercenary. She previously relied on brute strength to get the job done, but decades of personal growth enabled her to draw on technical expertise as well.
Irida and her tight-knit group worked with Calix aboard the Warsaw, and she served under him longer than most. One time the ship was in danger of being destroyed, and Irida discovered that the captain was attempting to place the blame on the engineers. Irida gave her undying loyalty and respect to Calix when the latter interceded on their behalf in the aftermath, and followed him all the way to the Andromeda galaxy when he signed up with the Andromeda Initiative.







“Same shit. Different galaxy.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising follow.




Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising[]
Irida and six of her teammates are revived by Calix to fix the imminently failing life support systems of the Nexus. After gaining a 24-hour reprieve, Irida suggests compartmentalizing their only pocket of safe air so repairs can be enacted on the station a section at a time.
Exhausted by constant work even after dealing with the more immediate concerns, Irida and the team are granted some R&R by Calix. Cookout is declared, but Irida is skeptical since it requires actual food (they have been rationing) and an outdoor setting (they're on a damaged space station). Calix assures her they're improvising, though she remains unconvinced as she follows the others.
When William Spender shows up and interrupts the cookout, Irida explains the situation to an inquiring Calix. The human demands to speak to their supervisor, so in amusement Irida contrives an elaborate pass-the-message chain that begins and ends with Calix. Spender backs down, promising to gift the crew with something extra. 
Irida observes the interaction was telling when the man departs, and she thanks Calix for standing up for his team again. Fellow engineer Lawrence Nnebron complains about Spender's arrogance, though Irida assures him all politicians are paid to be that way. Calix thinks something is up with the supplies, hence Irida heeds his advice to be mindful of their own supplies.
After the death of teammate Rantan Na'to, Irida expresses her grief by getting heavily drunk and biotically levitating other hapless workers. As she's hauled out of commons by her friends, she shouts her frustration at incompetent self-serving leaders she believes responsible for the rationing and deaths.
Sometime later, Irida uses her commando training to break into the main processor hubs and steal secret security intel for her team. As a distraction she induces a singularity near one of the coolant pipes, causing it to burst and dousing multiple people in freezing injuries. Because of rising tensions in the station Irida took Calix's admonition to guard their own rations to heart, and in order to do that they need information advantage. 
Unfortunately the Security Director Sloane Kelly discovers Irida's involvement and personally charges her with destruction of Nexus property and causing injuries to 15 people. Irida initially feigns innocence, then realizes she's caught after being punched in the face. She steels herself for what's to come thinking she'll only be put back in cryostasis eventually, and Calix knows the overrides. She muses it'll actually afford her some much-needed sleep anyway.
Irida takes her interrogation in stride, flippantly asking for water and announcing she's pressing charges for the assault. She tells Sloane there aren't actually any witnesses as she evaded the security cameras. She knows Sloane implemented secret surveillance without the general populace's consent, though the Security Director counters it's what caught Irida in the first place. The asari then keeps her mouth shut on further questions, claiming she acted alone and without Calix's permission.
As it turns out, Irida did send Calix the stolen files. Two weeks after her imprisonment, the tensions in the Nexus come to a head and Calix instigates a mutiny, using Irida's data cache to remain steps ahead of Sloane's security. By the time the mutiny's crushed Irida is freed from her cell, although she hears Calix has been killed. Sloane has switched over to their side, and in the enforced meeting between the Nexus leaders Irida voices support for exile rather than indefinite cryostasis.
Flying in the same shuttle as Sloane during the mutineers' departure from the Nexus, Irida complains they can do little in the hostile environment of the Heleus Cluster. Sloane asserts authority over the asari and the rest of Calix's remaining team, choking Irida and restraining her against a wall. Sloane blames their impulsiveness, particularly Irida's, as the main reason for their exile, and she vows to make the best of it with or without them. Irida reluctantly concedes the point, although she eyes their new would-be leader with a venomous glare.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Irida is known to have died sometime after her exile. Tiran Kandros' Recon Team 232 discovered abandoned camps and her grave on Pfeiffer while tracking her comrades' whereabouts.




