




Irune

Region
Milky Way / Aethon Cluster / Aru





Planet View


Orbital Distance
1.3 AU


Orbital Period
1.5 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.976


Radius
11,525 km


Day Length
36.2 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
60.56 atm


Surface Temp
9 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.5 g


Mass
4.861 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Aethon Cluster / Aru System /  Second planet


Homeworld

Species
Volus


Capital
Lenos


Population
8.8 billion(Pop. estimates are pre-invasion)



Prerequisite: Priority: Tuchanka (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Additional Information
3 Missions
4 Search and Rescue


Description[]
The volus homeworld is a high-pressure, high-gravity planet that supports an ammonia-based ecology. This rare environment means that the volus have been slow to colonize, as there are few planets that meet their habitation requirements. Most prefer to stay on Irune, working remotely via the extranet. The more adventurous don the clumsy but vital pressure suits and venture out to worlds in Citadel space to make their fortunes.
Irune is remarkable for having done away with warfare as an institution of the state. Volus culture lacks the romantic view of war found in the galaxy's more aggressive species. Physical skirmishes between groups rarely last long, and are almost always ended by social castigation, bargaining agreements, or harsh economic sanctions.
Irune's cities tend to be built on fast trade routes rather than militarily defensible positions. This has left them vulnerable to husk attack now that the Reapers have overwhelmed the turian fleets and begun a ground war on the planet.
CITADEL TRAVEL ADVISORY: Irune's ammonia-based atmosphere is toxic to non-volus life-forms. Visitors to Irune must wear pressure suits at all times when traveling outside of environmentally controlled areas.

Additional Information[]
Irune's flora include the kympna lobes, a pungent silver carnivorous plant with teeth. Apparently, these can survive and thrive in non-volus environments: they can be integrated into floral arrangements with plants that do not have high-pressure requirements and ammonia biochemistries.

Missions[]
Mission: Irune: Book of Plenix
Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Artifact: Book of Plenix



