









Ish
Salarian Information Broker

Race
Salarian


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
George Szilagyi


Appearances
Mass Effect GalaxyMass Effect 2


Ish is a salarian information broker.







“Sorry pal. I can't let you in here.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect Galaxy follow.




Mass Effect: Galaxy[]
Miranda Lawson arranges a meeting between Ish and Jacob when he first arrives at Tortuga. There, the salarian informs the human of the whereabouts and activities of the turian businessman Illo Nazario and gives Jacob the access code to the backdoor of Illo's settlement. Ish will warn Jacob that Nazario is a weapon smuggler with a long list of clients and enough thugs to take on an army. Later, when going for Illo, Jacob is attacked by a bunch of batarians which he and Miranda presume to have been alerted by Ish.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
Main article: Omega: Packages for Ish

Commander Shepard encounters Ish in 2185 on Omega outside the Afterlife Club with another salarian named Sel. When the Commander speaks to him, Ish requests for some packages to be picked up. If Jacob is in Shepard's party during the Commander's first talk with Ish, Ish becomes defensive when Jacob cynically reminds Ish of sending him into a nest of turian thugs and a batarian ambush. If Miranda is in the party, then she will have a few things to say as well. Both Miranda and Jacob advises Shepard not to trust Ish. If either of them are in the party when Shepard returns to Ish, they will also have comments on how Shepard handled Ish's business request.
Ish is very evasive when Shepard asks him about his real intentions, shiftily saying that he is gathering information about certain people on Omega, especially Aria T'Loak. If Shepard picks up the packages for Ish on the Citadel and on Illium, they find out that Anto Korragan, one of Aria's most trusted bodyguards, is often involved in outside deals without her approval. 
Shepard can choose to warn Anto that Ish is on to him, which leads to Anto killing Ish. Alternatively, Shepard can convince Ish to abandon his plans and leave Omega or else face the reprisal of Aria.


Trivia[]

George Szilagyi, who voices Ish, also voices Garoth, Captain Kirrahe, and Ochren.  Before working on Mass Effect, Szilagyi provided the voices for Cao Zeng, Minister Sheng, and Turnkey Shiji in BioWare's Jade Empire.
If you have completed Mass Effect Galaxy or are playing the Legendary Edition, a few extra lines of dialogue can be heard during the conversation with Ish in Mass Effect 2, though Jacob and Miranda have to be in the party for the extra dialogue to be initiated. Those lines will explain some of the events passed on Tortuga.



