






This article is about equipment in single-player. For a list of equipment generally, see Category:Equipment Listing. For equipment in Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer, see Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer/Character Customization/Equipment. For upgrades generally, see Upgrades.

Contents

1 Mass Effect

1.1 Armor
1.2 Weapons
1.3 Upgrades
1.4 Biotic Amps
1.5 Omni-tools
1.6 Medi-gel and Grenade Upgrades


2 Mass Effect 2

2.1 Armor
2.2 Weapons
2.3 Upgrades


3 Mass Effect 3

3.1 Armor
3.2 Weapons
3.3 Weapon Mods


4 Mass Effect: Infiltrator

4.1 Armor
4.2 Weapons





This article covers basic information for Armor, Weapons, Upgrades, and other forms of equipment in Mass Effect, Mass Effect 2, and Mass Effect 3. Much of this gear can be purchased for credits at various markets and vendors throughout the galaxy.
Legendary Edition:  All content for the Mass Effect trilogy that was previously available only from Downloadable Content (DLC) is now included by default. Legendary Edition features many differences from the original trilogy games, including multiple changes to how certain equipment that is DLC-exclusive in the original games is obtained, especially in the latter two games. More specific information should be available on more specific pages.

Mass Effect[]
See also: Omni-gel
Shepard and squad members in Mass Effect can make use of six major types of equipment: weapons, armor, biotic amps, omni-tools, ammo upgrades, and armor upgrades. Equipment quality is rated in Roman numerals, I (one) being the weakest and X (ten) being the strongest. Equipment can be found in storage containers throughout the galaxy, some of which require special skills to access. Items can also be looted from defeated enemies, or purchased from merchants.
Note:  Items can't be looted from most enemies that don't utilize conventional weapons or armor, such as animals.
Shepard can carry no more than 150 items at a time in their inventory, and will receive a warning as the limit is approached. To free up inventory space, items can be equipped in free slots on Shepard or NPC squadmates, either while on missions via the Equipment menu screen, or at the personnel lockers in the cargo hold of the SSV Normandy. Unwanted items can also be converted to omni-gel (4 units per item recycled, up to a maximum of 999), or sold when visiting shops and vendors (e.g. the Alliance Requisition Officer) which also earns credits. Discounts of merchants' prices and bonus profits from selling items to them can be obtained by having invested points in the Renegade and Paragon talents.
Legendary Edition: 

Inventory capacity is doubled from 150 to 300, with the warning for reaching full capacity appearing with 50 slots remaining, rather than 15.
Items can now be bulk flagged as “Junk”; all Junk items can be converted into omni-gel or sold to merchants at once.
Inventory and stores now have sorting functionality.
Armor[]
Main article: Armor
There are three different classes of armor in Mass Effect: Light, Medium, and Heavy. The ability to wear a class of armor is dependent on Shepard's or the squad member's class and their level in their armor skill. Armor is uniquely race-specific, with four different types of armor:

Human (can be worn by asari)
Krogan
Quarian
Turian
Armor sets have three stats: Damage Protection, Shields, and Tech/Biotic protection. Higher levels of armor have higher stats across the board, but different models of armor have different strong points. Some armor manufacturers have hidden abilities. Armor from Devlon Industries provides immunity to level one environmental hazards, and Phoenix armor from Sirta Foundation boosts health regeneration.

Weapons[]
Main article: Weapons
Weaponry in Mass Effect is based on mass accelerator technology. A weapon shaves a projectile the size of a sand grain from a dense block of metal. The projectile is launched at supersonic velocities by decreasing its mass in a mass effect field. Because of this, ammunition is never a concern, but managing the weapon's internal heat is. If a weapon is fired too rapidly, heat will build up inside of the weapon and it will overheat, forcing the operator to stop firing long enough for the weapon to disperse its heat buildup. Weapons fall into four categories:

Assault Rifles
Sniper Rifles
Shotguns
Pistols
Only the Soldier class is capable of receiving training in all weapon types. Other classes have a selection of weapons for which they can receive training. Weapons have three stats: Damage, Accuracy, and Shots before Overheat. Higher levels of weapon inflict more damage, maintain greater accuracy, and can fire for longer time periods before overheating. Different models of weapons, however, place importance on specific attributes.

Upgrades[]
Main article: Armor Upgrades
Most armor sets in Mass Effect have one slot to upgrade their effectiveness, but certain high-grade armors have two such slots. Armor upgrades have various beneficial effects, such as improving damage protection or shields, providing greater damage from melee attacks, or increasing resistance to toxic environments.

Main article: Weapon Upgrades
Nearly all weapons can be upgraded with one modification to their functionality, and some high-grade weapons can accept two such upgrades. Weapons from Geth Armory do not accept  upgrades. Upgrades to weapons have various effects, such as increasing damage or stability, but often have negative effects as well, such as reducing shots before overheating.

Main article: Ammo Upgrades
Nearly all weapons can also accept an upgrade to their ammunition. Weapons from Geth Armory do not accept upgrades. Upgrades to ammo have various effects on the target, such as poisoning or burning, but sometimes have negative effects, such as a slower rate of fire or greater heat generation.

Main article: Grenade Upgrades
Shepard's hand grenades may also accept a modification to their payload, giving them a special effect such as freezing or burning targets within the blast radius.

Biotic Amps[]
Main article: Biotic Amps
Biotics can synchronize the dozens of element zero nodules throughout their nervous system by using amps (amplifiers). Biotic amps are only used by classes with biotic specializations. Bio-amps have three stats: Duration Bonus, Power Bonus, and Cooldown Bonus. Higher level amps have better stats, with various models placing emphasis on certain stats.

Omni-tools[]
Main article: Omni-tools
Omni-tools are worn devices, appearing as an orange hologram over the forearm. Standard issue for soldiers and first-in colonists, they are multipurpose diagnostic tools combining a computer microframe, sensor analysis pack, and minifacturing fabricator. Versatile and reliable, omni-tools are used for a variety of battlefield tasks, such as hacking, decryption, or repair. They can analyze and adjust the functionality of most standard equipment and rapidly assemble small three-dimensional objects from common and reusable industrial plastics, ceramics, and light alloys, allowing for reparations and modifications in the field.
Omni-tools are only worn by classes with tech specializations. Omni-tools give bonuses to Shields, Tech Cooldown, and Medi-gel recharge. Higher levels of omni-tool have better stats, with various models placing emphasis on certain stats.

Medi-gel and Grenade Upgrades[]
See also: Merchants Guide
These upgrades increase the number of medi-gel packs and grenades Shepard can carry. Initially, Shepard can carry five of each, and can acquire a total of five upgrades each, for a maximum of ten medi-gel packs and ten grenades.
The following table lists the pricing and availability for medi-gel and grenade upgrades. These prices may lower based on Shepard's charm skill.



Level

Credits

Merchants


Medi-gel

Grenades


I
200
Morlan / Alliance Requisition Officer
C-Sec Requisitions Officer / Alliance Requisition Officer


II
3,125
Morlan / Expat / Petozi
Morlan / Opold


III
12,500
Opold / Commander Rentola
Expat / Commander Rentola


IV
56,000
C-Sec Requisitions Officer / Commander Rentola
C-Sec Requisitions Officer / Commander Rentola


V
110,000
Dr. Chloe Michel / Delan
Delan

Mass Effect 2[]
Shepard and squad members in Mass Effect 2 can make use of weapons, armor, and their upgrades as found throughout the galaxy or acquired through DLC.

Armor[]
Main article: Armor
In Mass Effect 2, Commander Shepard starts with the default N7 Armor. This armor can be customized piecemeal with parts for helmet, chest, shoulders, arms, and legs. These parts can be purchased at in-game stores or as DLC. There are also a number of visual customizations available including color, reflectiveness, and color pattern.
Alternatively, Commander Shepard can swap out the N7 Armor for another set of non-customizable armor available via DLC. Armor sets for squad members are predetermined in stats and appearance, and alternate appearances can be unlocked by completing the squad member's loyalty mission, or by purchasing an Alternate Appearance Pack DLC.

Weapons[]
Main article: Weapons
See also: Combat (Mass Effect 2)#Weapons Heat and Thermal Clips
Since the events of Mass Effect, personal weapons have undergone a massive shift. It was discovered that, in an age of kinetic barriers, most firefights were won by the side who could put the most rounds downrange the fastest. As such, detachable heat sinks, known as thermal clips, were adopted first by the geth, and shortly thereafter by organic arms manufacturers. Ammunition may never be a concern with modern arms, but the availability of thermal clips is; weapons without thermal clips have nowhere to disperse their heat and are incapable of firing. Luckily, thermal clips litter modern battlefields, and can be obtained from fallen enemies or found around the environment.
Thermal clips become more likely to drop from slain enemies when the extra carried ammunition (i.e. not the rounds still in the weapon's magazine) for any of Shepard's weapons starts to drop below maximum capacity.  Some enemy types will never drop thermal clips upon death, mainly those that don't utilize conventional weapons such as Husks.  Occasionally some clips found in the environment are capable of "respawning" in the same location a short time after being picked up.  
Thermal clips dropped by slain enemies restore a smaller amount of ammunition than clips found already lying around the environment. Picking up thermal clips will restore a flat amount of ammunition to all of Shepard's weapons not at full carrying capacity, the amount varying for each weapon type.  Ammunition will not be restored to a weapon with an empty or partially empty magazine if the weapon is still at maximum capacity for extra clips, so weapons should always be reloaded before obtaining ammunition pickups to maximize the ammo regained.    
The HUD element, in the lower left corner of the screen, shows how much ammunition remains in Shepard's equipped weapon. The number on the left (the one which decreases along with the nearby bar) shows how many shots remain before reloading is necessary. The other number, on the right, shows how many shots are available from backup clips. Shepard can manually reload a thermal clip at any time, or else will be forced to do so when the current clip becomes saturated with heat. Reloading a new clip before using up all of the rounds in a magazine will not waste the remaining rounds.
Weapons in Mass Effect 2 fall into six categories:

Assault Rifles
Sniper Rifles
Shotguns
Submachine Guns
Heavy Pistols
Heavy Weapons
Only the Soldier class is capable of wielding all weapon types, with the exception of submachine guns; other classes have a selection of weapons they can wield.  Heavy weapons, carried only by Shepard, are unique from other classes of weapon in Mass Effect 2 because they use power cells instead of thermal clips. These power cells can be found in crates throughout the environment and are usually an important find because heavy weapon ammo is not automatically refilled to maximum between missions like the ammunition of other weapons. Power cells will also restore a large amount of ammunition to non-heavy weapons at no penalty to the amount of heavy weapon ammo restored.  Picking up power cells while at full heavy weapon ammo capacity will refill the ammo of other weapons and also salvage 100 credits.  Heavy weapons can only be used by Shepard and not squadmates.  They can be researched, unlocked with DLC, and occasionally, found on missions. Heavy weapons usually have special functionalities not available from other weapon types such as homing in on a target, stunning or disabling enemies, or causing damage in large areas.

Upgrades[]
Main article: Research
Upgrades for Armor and Weapons in Mass Effect 2 are available. These can either be purchased through shops, and are instantly available, or found throughout the galaxy, which then require researching aboard the Normandy SR-2 in the tech lab.
Upgrades to weapons have effects such as additional damage, ammunition capacity, and shield and armor piercing. These upgrades are applied by weapon type, and once they are unlocked, all weapons of that type receive the bonus. Cybernetic upgrades to Shepard offer increased health and melee damage. Medical and shield upgrades benefit Shepard and squad members, offering additional damage protection and medi-gel capacity, among other benefits. Upgrades to omni-tools and bio-amps benefit classes and squad members with tech and biotic abilities, respectively, offering increased damage and cooldown, among other benefits. Upgrades to squad members and the Normandy itself are available, throughout the galaxy and by talking to squad members themselves, and vary from character to character.

Mass Effect 3[]
See also: Equipment Guide (Mass Effect 3)
In Mass Effect 3, Shepard and the squad make use of a variety of weapons. Shepard can once again piece together armor by finding and buying pieces and sets, although squad armor remains non-customizable.

Armor[]
Main article: Armor
Shepard can purchase different pieces of armor from vendors on the Citadel, as well as finding them on missions. The Commander starts the game with the standard N7 Armor and the areas of customization are Helmet, Chest, Shoulders, Arms, and Legs with a wide array of customizable colors. On the other hand, non-customizable sets of armor are available for purchase on the Citadel, while some are delivered directly to the Normandy. These include Inferno Armor, Blood Dragon Armor, Collector Armor, Cerberus Armor, N7 Defender Armor, Terminus Armor, and Cerberus Ajax Armor. Each armor piece and set has its own boosts to various stats.
Armor for squad members has a predetermined bonus, and two different outfits are available immediately, with each providing a different boost for that particular squadmate. Additional outfits can be gained from the Mass Effect 3: N7 Collector's Edition Pack (for Kaidan, Ashley, James, and Liara), Mass Effect 3: From Ashes (one extra outfit for everyone except Javik), and the Alternate Appearance Pack (for Garrus, EDI, and Liara), although some outfits share bonuses with previously-available outfits. Changing the outfits of squadmates can drastically affect how they perform on certain missions. Liara can have up to five outfits depending on DLC, though not necessarily five different stat boosts.

Weapons[]
Main article: Weapons
Weapons retain the thermal clip system from Mass Effect 2 with one minor improvement: in Mass Effect 2, ammunition could not be restored to a weapon with an empty or partially empty magazine if the weapon was still at maximum capacity for extra clips, so weapons always needed to be reloaded before obtaining ammunition pickups to maximize the ammo regained.  This is no longer the case in Mass Effect 3; picking up thermal clips will now restore ammunition missing from either the magazine or the extra ammo supply of a weapon without requiring a reload of the weapon (ammo used up from the magazine will be restored to the extra ammo supply by ammo pickups, reloading is still required to refill the magazine).
Weapons in Mass Effect 3 are again divided into five main types:

Assault Rifles
Sniper Rifles
Shotguns
Submachine Guns
Heavy Pistols
A significant change from previous games is that weapon usage is no longer restricted by class. For example, an Infiltrator could equip all five weapon types simultaneously in Mass Effect 3, whereas in previous games Infiltrators were limited to Sniper Rifles and Pistols. To counter-balance this freedom, a weapon weight system is implemented, and each class has a weight limit. Though all classes are free to load down with even all the heaviest weapons, the weapon load weight plays a factor in power cool-down rates: Under-loading results in a cool-down reduction bonus, while overloading results in a cool-down increase penalty. The magnitude of this bonus or penalty depends on the magnitude of the under/over-load. All player classes have a specific base weight capacity associated with it, with classes identified as Combat-specialized in the original Mass Effect having the higher capacity (with the Soldier, the pure combat class, having the highest). An exception exists in the Sentinel class, which matches the Vanguard and Infiltrator classes in base weapon weight capacity to maintain its inherent versatility. Adepts and Engineers have the lowest base weight capacities, as they are primarily reliant on biotic and tech powers. As weapons are upgraded from I (lowest) to X (highest), their weight will be reduced and other stats will be improved.

Weapon Mods[]
Main article: Weapon Mods
Weapon modification returns from the original Mass Effect, though with some changes. Each weapon class has specific modifications available to it, as well as modifications that can span all five classes. Every weapon has two available slots for mod customization, though certain combinations of mods aren't possible.  Weapon modifications can be found throughout the game during missions, or purchased at various locations on the Citadel or via the Procurement Terminal in the Shuttle Bay aboard the Normandy SR-2.  If a certain mod is missed or not purchased during a first playthrough, they can be found or purchased in subsequent playthroughs.  
Once a weapon mod is found, it may be applied to any and all of the weapons of the applicable type for Shepard or for squadmates. Finding another instance of a mod the player already possesses will upgrade that mod to the next level. Weapon mods can reach a maximum level of 5; some mods can't reach level 5 on an initial playthrough due to limited availability.  Shops will always carry mods one level above those the player currently has.

Mass Effect: Infiltrator[]
The protagonist of the mobile game Mass Effect: Infiltrator, Randall Ezno, can make use of various weapons and armor in exchange for credits in the in-game Store.

Armor[]
Main article: Armor
Randall Ezno starts with the default Infiltrator Armour and Helmet and can purchase three other armor sets. These armor sets are compound of an armor and an helmet with the same design. Each of them gives specific bonus to Randall's abilities. It is possible to combine an armor and an helmet even if they are not part of the same set. You can also choose if you equip an helmet or not. However, helmets are obligatory in some outdoor environments of the game.
Note: The turian protagonist is equipped with his own armour and cannot purchase or equip another set.

Weapons[]
Main article: Weapons
Randall Ezno can carry four different types of weapon. He starts with the assault rifle and the shotgun. He can purchase new weapons or upgrades for them in the Store. Each weapon set can be upgraded five times. The four usable weapons in the game are:

M-96 Mattock Auto assault rifle
M-22 Eviscerator shotgun
M-29 Incisor sniper rifle
M-333 Particle Beam heavy weapon
Note: The turian protagonist is equipped with a single weapon which can be switched between assault rifle or shotgun mode. The player cannot use any other weapon nor purchase upgrades for the equipped weapon.




