


While gaining Evfra's trust, you have garnered the attention of the Roekaar, a cell of angaran fighters who hate all aliens. Jaal has information about the Roekaar's leader, Akksul.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Speak to Jaal on the Tempest
2.2 Find Thaldyr on Havarl
2.3 Defeat the Kett
2.4 Enter Thaldyr's home
2.5 Speak to Thaldyr




Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: A Trail of Hope II

Pathfinder Ryder automatically receives this mission after calling Evfra via vidcomm.

Walkthrough[]
Speak to Jaal on the Tempest[]
Head to the Tempest and speak with Jaal. Jaal tells you he is familiar with Akksul as they studied under the Moshae together. Akksul used to research the Remnant but he was captured by the kett and kept in a labor camp. After a year in the camp, Akksul escaped, with a hatred of aliens that gave rise to the xenophobic Roekaar.
Jaal says that if the Andromeda Initiative is going to live in Heleus Cluster, they will have to deal with the Roekaar one way or another. Jaal suggests contacting Thaldyr, an angara on Havarl who escaped the labor camp with Akksul.

Find Thaldyr on Havarl[]
Head to Havarl and travel northeast of Pelaav Research Station. Upon nearing the navpoint, you will find Thaldyr's home surrounded by kett. 

Defeat the Kett[]
A few kett Chosen are present in the area. You can choose wether to pick-up them one by one with your sniper rifle or to engage in close quarter combat. With no reinforcements it is quite an easy task. This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
Enter Thaldyr's home[]
After defeating the kett, you can scan an angaran body to find that it is a Roekaar member, likely sent to protect Thaldyr.
There is also an Angaran Integrated Tech Node near the body that can be scanned for +100 .
Ryder then overrides the lock on Thaldyr's home.

Speak to Thaldyr[]
Inside the home Ryder finds Thaldyr. Unfortunately, she is dying from self-inflicted wounds, and passes away before getting any useful information. 
Jaal doubts anyone associated with the Roekaar will give any information on Akksul's whereabouts. The only possibility is the Moshae.
Ryder receives +530 XP, +29 AVP , and 2% Havarl viability when the conversation is done. The mission is now complete, clearing the way for the second part: Jaal Ama Darav: Friend or Foe? II.
There is a Roekaar Manifesto on the table for the mission Task: Roekaar Manifestos. There is also a lootable container.
There is another Angaran Integrated Tech Node inside the home that can be scanned for +100 .




