


Jaal has asked Ryder to meet him on Aya.

Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Meet Jaal At Resistance HQ On Aya


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards


Acquisition[]
This mission can only be acquired if Ryder has romanced Jaal Ama Darav during the game and has completed The Journey to Meridian. After Jaal Ama Darav: Flesh and Blood, an email will arrive from Jaal.





From Your Romantic Friend Jaal
Lovely, Amazing Ryder, 

Meet me on Aya. I have a surprise for you. 


Jaal


After acknowledging the email, the mission begins.

Walkthrough[]
Meet Jaal At Resistance HQ On Aya[]
Head to the navpointon Aya. 
Note: Jaal is at a balcony overlook near the Resistance Headquarters but not in the Resistance Headquarters as the objective states.
Speak to Jaal to start a cutscene.
Jaal and Ryder walk forwards towards a waterfall. Jaal has his hands over Ryder's eyes. Ryder says this must be heaven from what it smells like. Jaal takes his hands away and Ryder comments that this place must be very popular but there are no visitors. Jaal says he has his ways and they won't be disturbed.
There is an interrupt option to "Kiss" Jaal.
Jaal asks what Ryder's favorite place is and they talk about Ryder's favorite place.
Jaal then professes that he has fallen in love with Ryder.
Jaal, then somewhat flustered, asks Ryder about sex. Ryder has the choice to say yes or no.
If Ryder says no to sex:
Ryder says that the moment is perfect. Jaal then admires Ryder very strongly with words.
Ryder is then given an interrupt option to "Declare Love".
After the interrupt, Jaal hugs Ryder and the screen fades to grey and the mission is over.
If Ryder says yes to sex:
Jaal undresses and walks into the water. Ryder then disrobes and is seen nude from behind before turning around and showing full frontal nudity. 
Jaal then admires Ryder very strongly with words.
Ryder is then given an interrupt option to "Declare Love".
After the interrupt, the Ryder and Jaal begin to have sex (doesn't matter if Ryder declared love or not). The screen fades away to grey before the scene becomes entirely too graphic.
The mission then ends.

Aftermath[]
After the mission an email will arrive for Ryder.
If Ryder is female:




A Letter of Love and Admiration 
To: Ryder
From: Jaal

Darling. Dearest. Temptress. Amazing heart. 

I took you to the most beautiful place on our most beautiful planet, and it all paled when compared to you. Your hair, your skin are softer than I could have imagined, your breath even sweeter.

Please don't think I'm blind to your other qualities: your intellect, your work ethic... but for this moment, I'm dizzy with the memory of our perfect time together and the feel of your arms around me.


I love you. Jaal



If Ryder is male:




A Letter of Love and Admiration
To: Ryder
From: Jaal

Dearest. Temptor. Amazing heart.

I took you to the most wonderful place on our most beautiful planet, and it all paled when compared to you. You are more extraordinary than any partner I ever could have imagined—your mouth, your eyes, your arms.

Please don't think I'm blind to your other qualities: your intellect, your work ethic... but for this moment, I'm dizzy with the memory of our perfect time together and the feel of your arms around me.


I love you. Jaal


Rewards[]
None



