









Jaroth




Race
Salarian


Type
Organic, Tech


Faction
Eclipse


Armament
M-6 Carnifex


Abilities
 Incinerate Combat Drone Shield Boost


Health
High


Armor
High


Shields
High


Locations
Omega


Jaroth is the leader of the Eclipse mercenaries on Omega. Despite being Eclipse he's not wearing the standard Eclipse uniform, much like Captain Wasea.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Jaroth shipped tainted element zero across Citadel space. He holds a personal grudge against the vigilante Archangel, who in the last month killed one of his top lieutenants, his own brother, during a raid on one of the Eclipse transports. As Archangel has made enemies with all major Omega gangs, Jaroth forms an alliance with the leaders of such factions, Tarak of the Blue Suns and Garm of the Blood Pack, in order to take the vigilante down once and for all. Should they succeed, the three conspire to move against Aria T'Loak next: Jaroth secured Garm and the Blood Pack's support in this endeavor, and has composed a message to Tarak relaying the news.
The battle plan against Archangel is disseminated by Jaroth to the rest of Eclipse. Tarak proposed sending expendable freelancers against Archangel, and Jaroth sees no problem with it since they're a distraction to the infiltration team. He suggests that when the freelancers are killed he will send LOKI Mechs against the vigilante. He disdains freelancers, and may be interrupted by a trio of heavily-armed freelancers led by a human, though he may still take the time to answer some inquiries these people have.
It soon becomes apparent that these "freelancers" are actually on Archangel's side once they cross the only bridge to the vigilante's base. Jaroth deploys his entire faction against the interlopers, living troops as well as LOKIs and a YMIR Mech, though they are all defeated in short order. He himself takes to the field last, figuring if he wants something done right he has to do it himself, and is also killed like the rest.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Jaroth is an Engineer, but is only armed with an M-6 Carnifex Pistol. He can also use Incinerate and Combat Drone.

Defensive
Jaroth possesses strong shielding and armor, and has moderate health. He can replenish his shields with some taps from his omni-tool but not his armor or health. He will only restore his shields once his armor has been completely destroyed.

Tactics[]
While Jaroth has potentially devastating powers at higher difficulties, he does not spam them and still substantially relies on the damage output of his Carnifex.
Provided you sabotaged the YMIR Mech, then the fight with Jaroth is not that difficult, as the mech will distract him, dealing significant damage and potentially even killing him for you. If the mech was not sabotaged, use abilities such as Overload or Disruptor Ammo on his shields, followed by a headshot or two with a Sniper Rifle or Heavy Pistol to finish him off.
If there are still troops in the field when Jaroth arrives, keep killing them first and reserve the Eclipse boss for last. While he can support the troops with offensive Incinerates and Combat Drones, his overall combat damage is low and you'll probably die more to rockets in the face or sustained Avenger fire.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




