


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 







Jarun Tann
Andromeda Initiative Director

Race
Salarian


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
Kumail Nanjiani


Appearances
Mass Effect: Nexus UprisingMass Effect: Andromeda



“Publicly, I would say we're more than up for the challenge. Privately, I can tell you it's been a disaster.”
Jarun Tann is a salarian bureaucrat. He is described as craving power but also well-meaning, in over his head but trying to hide it, self-important but with seeds of insecurity.

Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect: Andromeda: Nexus Uprising
3 Mass Effect: Andromeda

3.1 Sleeping Dragons


4 References


Background[]
See also: Codex (Mass Effect: Andromeda)/The Andromeda Initiative#Nexus: Andromeda Initiative Director Tann
Tann was born on Sur'Kesh. He was fascinated with the idea of exploring space since he was young, but life put him in a different direction. When he heard about the Andromeda Initiative, he saw it as a chance to take the path not taken.
Tann's application to the Initiative listed his previous work experience as "Senior Consultant, Advanced Matrix-Based Accounting" with hobbies in model ship building and "travel...someday". His official answer to questions about preexisting prejudices was blank, though data forensics revealed a racist bias against the krogan.







“Same shit. Different galaxy.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising follow.




Mass Effect: Andromeda: Nexus Uprising[]
Jarun was originally appointed Deputy Assistant for Revenue Management within the Andromeda Initiative, but after the seven leaders above him perished when the Nexus collided with the Scourge in 2818, including Initiative founder Jien Garson, he was thrust into the role of Director of the Initiative. During this dire stage, hydroponics was damaged, there were no habitable planets available, and supplies were stretched to a crisis point. 
Lacking Garson's charisma, Jarun had an uneasy relationship with the other Initiative leaders and was frequently derided as a less than ideal placeholder. His dealings with Nakmor Kesh are especially tense due to Jarun's prejudice against the krogan. As the situation became more dire, Tann began entertaining the idea of putting people back into cryostasis and installing rationing policies. After the Nexus' scout teams failed to find habitable worlds, Tann decided to forcefully send people back into cryostasis to conserve their resources. Dissent turned to open rebellion against the Nexus leadership, causing the event known as the "Nexus uprising". 
Relations between Head of Nexus security, Sloane Kelly, and  Tann quickly deteriorated during the uprising. Sloane was vehemently against using the krogan against the mutineers and went to negotiate with the rebellion's leader, Calix Corvannis. While she was away, the Director went behind her back to make a deal with Clan Nakmor in order to decisively put down the mutiny. Calix Corvannis was killed in the ensuing violence with the krogan and upon learning of the Director's intervention and Sloane switched sides to the rebellion. 
To deal with the rebels and their supply problems in one fell swoop Tann gave them an ultimatum: exile to the hostile planets or cryostasis. The rebels and Sloane chose exile. When Clan Nakmor approached Tann about their promised reward of political representation on the Nexus, the salarian revealed he was only just learning about their deal with William Spender and reneges on it, claiming Spender wasn't authorized to make such a deal and that the human will be "reprimanded" for the error. 
Tann narrowly escaped the wrath of Nakmor Morda due to Kesh standing between him and her clan leader. Kesh convinced Clan Nakmor to follow the outlaws into exile and noted Kesh's presence on the Nexus would ensure the krogan would have an ally in the Nexus despite their departure from the station.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Director Tann has official oversight of Initiative operations and strategy, and effective supervision of Pathfinder teams. However, many still consider Tann inept at handling the chains of command and he lacks the charisma to enforce his authority. Thus, Tann and a council of prominent Nexus leaders have to reach a consensus to provide any form of effective leadership for the Andromeda Initiative; a practice not easily realized as the Nexus leadership is often hampered by squabbles and debates on political issues.


The Director first meets Pathfinder Ryder after the Hyperion's arrival at the Nexus. Although the young Ryder lacks their father Alec's experience, Tann recognizes Pathfinder Ryder as the Nexus' best chance at finding habitable worlds and overcoming the obstacles of the kett and the Scourge. Thus, Tann uses his authority to provide Ryder the Tempest. He hopes Ryder's success in making a world viable for an outpost would result in waking more colonists up from cryostasis and gathering more resources to support the Nexus. Should Ryder succeed, Tann's endorsement of them would enhance his political reputation, and should they fail, Tann rationalizes that he could aggrandize himself through the endorsement of another Pathfinder. He holds office in a wing of Operations that's presently under construction.
When Ryder succeeds in activating the Remnant vault to render Eos habitable, allowing the Initiative to establish Prodromos, Tann compliments the Pathfinder's achievements and introduces them to the Pathfinder Headquarters, touting it as a place where Ryder could hang their "trophies". Kandros and Kesh later join them and comment on Ryder's choice of outpost type, causing Tann to overrule and remind them that they can't take back the decision. He subsequently approves Ryder's request to investigate a lead on the vault network. 


Having set up his office at the top of Pathfinder HQ, Tann vacates his previous office and puts an aide there to greet visitors. He can be overheard at times talking to other personnel over comms. He complains to Kesh that the air conditioning in his room seems to be colder than the rest of the station, accusing her of doing it on purpose. The Superintendent repeatedly tells him he's just imagining things before cutting him off. He pressures Doctor Camden to increase plant yields since lives depend on it, suggesting more water in an attempt to make them grow faster, before deferring to the botanist's expert opinion against it.
After the establishment of first contact with the angara, Tann congratulates Ryder on the peaceful event, claiming it's everything the Initiative stands for. If Ryder deems it the best part of the job, or proclaims fascination with angaran culture, Tann notes first contact is a rare event in the Milky Way. If Ryder praises Aya's geography, Tann jokingly deems it a potential venue for a future resort. If Ryder frames it in terms of not having more enemies aside from the kett, Tann concurs since the Initiative isn't equipped for war. If he's aware about exaltation, he deems the process alarming and consequently treats Aya as a welcome discovery.
The Director is eager to forge diplomatic ties as the Initiative needs all the allies it can get. If Moshae Sjefa has been rescued already, Tann hopes it would lead to stronger ties. However, he bungles his negotiations with the angara. On comms, he repeatedly offers the Initiative's "wisdom and knowledge" to the angaran attache despite them being able to attain it on their own, and he fails to project an aura of confidence.
Following the Moshae's return to Aya, Ryder reports to Tann that the angara have opened up an embassy for the Initiative. Pleased at this news, the Director sends emissaries there to further establish relations with them.


After the Pathfinder's raid on the Archon's flagship and subsequent rescue of the salarian ark, Tann goes to the Docking Bay and personally greets the new arrivals as they disembark from Paarchero. He advises patience while the process of settling people is still ongoing. He points to the salarians' survival as proof that the colonial dream is still alive, and asks the Pathfinder to spare a few words for the crowd. If Ryder tells people to pull together, Tann points out he just said the same thing. If Ryder touts their growing experience with their job, Tann appreciates their confidence and notes the leadership chose the Pathfinder well. If Ryder claims they're just doing the job, Tann praises them as a humble servant and champion of the people. If Ryder highlights the setbacks experienced, the Director spins it as an example of perseverance and claims to espouse the value himself. In any event he makes sure the crowd knows to direct their gratitude at Ryder. 
Later at Pathfinder HQ when it's time to go to Meridian, Tann argues with Kesh over whether Ryder saved Pathfinder Zevin Raeka or Nakmor Drack's scouts. Furthermore, the Initiative leadership refuses to support Ryder's plan to take Meridian from the kett. When the salarian Pathfinder (and conditionally the asari and turian ones as well) declares their support for Ryder, Tann is forced to assert his authority as their superior to order them to cease and desist.
After learning that the Pathfinders had secretly defied his orders and had taken Khi Tasira from the kett, Tann apologizes to Ryder for his hesitation and affirms that the human is worthy of the title of Pathfinder.
Following the Archon's defeat, Tann and the rest of the Nexus leadership meet with Ryder to discuss who to nominate as interim Heleus ambassador to the Nexus. Tann recommends the salarian Pathfinder, either Lumont Hayjer or Zevin Raeka. If Ryder chooses Nakmor Morda, Tann would be literally speechless when the Pathfinder talks to him on the Nexus.

Sleeping Dragons[]
In response to prostesters at Hydroponics demanding their families brought out from cryostasis immediately, Tann agrees with the rest of the Nexus leadership that doing so would just strain Initiative resources. He recommends keeping people safely frozen and the protesters dispersed. Reminded by the Nexus Uprising due to legitimate grievances of the opposing side, he believes survival is more important than family reunions, and he doesn't want to risk another revolt.
If Ryder sides with the protesters, Tann deems their compassion admirable but still disagrees. If Ryder sides with the leadership, Tann wants the Pathfinder to personally tell the protesters since delivering bad news is still part of their duty.

References[]
Kumail Nanjiani as Jarun Tann



