







The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.



Jason Harrah
Security Chief

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect (cut)


Jason Harrah is a character who was cut from Mass Effect during development. He was intended to be the security chief on Eldfell-Ashland's Throw Down station on the planet Caleston.
Before his troubles began, Harrah was known as a good marksman with a "great sense of justice", having acted as a respectable security chief for some time. At some point however, he and the prostitute Tatiana Naidenov fell in love due to his unusually sweet manners during his visits, and crooked administrator Nonya Tombiri would take advantage of this romance to advance her plans. Thus, Harrah made a deal with the Miners' Union who runs the prostitution ring: he could be with her if he stayed out of their business. Later on, Tombiri had Naidenov kidnapped by Sebastian Van Heerden and she was told she had better stay away from Harrah if she wanted him to live. After Naidenov pretended to break up, Harrah fell into depression and became severely alcoholic, spending his days drinking whiskey.
Shepard first meets Harrah at Ruushok's bar The Seventh Moon where he is being ridiculed. A fight breaks out and he is visibly powerless, giving Shepard the opportunity to defend him from getting beaten up. After some introductions, he can be convinced to clean up his act, though he will relapse unless Shepard clears his office of any bottles. Later on, he asks Shepard to go ask Tatiana at The Seventh Moon why she broke up with him, since Van Heerden won't let him get anywhere near her. As a result from this, Shepard learns that Tatiana still loves Harrah. If Shepard tells him the truth, he's further convinced to stop drinking and is willing to take up arms against the criminal elements on the station, and to save Tatiana from Van Heerden. When Shepard is ready, the two go to The Seventh Moon but racial tensions among the bar's customers rise again, and it's up to Shepard to save Harrah from a lynch mob. If the right conditions are met, Van Heerden is killed and Harrah is unharmed. Otherwise, he is lethally wounded and Tatiana goes to him Van Heerden is dead. She tearfully tells him she still loves him, and he dies with his heart at peace. If Harrah has survived, he leaves the bar with Tatiana and Shepard, and will find a safe spot for Tatiana to hide in unless Shepard offers to hide her on the SSV Normandy. Harrah is grateful for her rescue, and says Shepard can count on him for help.
If the mission Caleston: Last Man Standing hasn't reached that point yet, Jason Harrah can appear during the confrontation with Sessa Tarrent and her men on the Plaza and will resolve the situation peacefully, for the sake of public safety. After Liara T'Soni has been rescued, Jason and Tatiana are reunited again and announce that they're going to get married.

References[]
Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Redemption Voicelines



