









Jax




Race
Krogan


Type
Organic


Armament
Assault Rifle, Shotgun


Abilities
 Krogan Regeneration Berserker Charge Immunity


Health
Moderate


Shields
Low


Locations
Citadel


Jax is a krogan arms dealer on the Citadel. He has gained notoriety for selling illegal mods that give criminals the upper hand over C-Sec's officers.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Commander Shepard is asked by C-Sec detective Chellick to pick up some mods from Jax to help him with his investigation, when the Commander asks Chellick to stop endangering Jenna who is acting as an informant in Chora's Den, and get her out of there, on behest of Rita. Chellick agrees to get Jenna out of the club but insists that he still has his investigation to complete. 
Chellick tells Shepard to go to the Lower Markets and meet Jax. He cautions Shepard to be careful not to tip Jax off as he doesn't want to lose his leads. When Shepard meets Jax, the Commander can either follow through Chellick's request and hand over the payment, or try to arrest Jax, leading to a firefight, resulting in Jax's death.
If Jax is given his payment, he doesn't suspect anything and leaves quickly, unaware Chellick can still track his movements and use him to find other buyers in the future.

Tactics[]
Being a krogan, Jax has higher health than humanoid enemies like his bodyguards. He  possesses only three bars of shielding, which will regenerate over time. His health regenerates as well and he will get back up after the first time you kill him. This revival can be prevented by using Chemical, Incendiary or High Explosive Rounds, as they will destroy his body. Killing him while he's in the air (possible with Lift, Throw or Singularity) will also do the trick.
Jax typically brings out his shotgun only. On the odd occasion his target is out of range he switches to an assault rifle, but still attempts to close the distance by charging and then bringing out the shotgun.
Using Throw to keep him away is a good idea. Alternatively, he can be stunned with Neural Shock or simply disable the shotgun with Sabotage (the latter will leave him unable to shoot, since he doesn't carry any sidearms. However, he will still be able to attack you with Berserker Charge.)
Unlike his bodyguards, Jax can follow you if you retreat from the Lower Markets. This allows you to kill him easily when he's unsupported and deal with the bodyguards later.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





