









Jentha




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Faction
Blue Suns


Armament
M-76 Revenant


Abilities
 Disruptor Ammo  Shield Boost


Health
High


Armor
High


Shields
High


Locations
Omega


Jentha is a Blue Suns commander on Omega. She handles the interchange with the freelancers and underlings on her leader Tarak's behalf, as the latter is too busy coordinating the operation to take down Archangel.






“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Jentha suggested to Tarak that he should cooperate with the other members of the operation, the Blood Pack and Eclipse, but he'd rather have each group and the freelancers take their shots separately while the Blue Suns wait. She reckons Archangel won't last long anyway, as the turian has been holed up for over a day. She has a personal hatred of Archangel, as his vigilantism has cost the Blue Suns substantially. 
Tarak became paranoid and jumpy after Archangel attacked him at his home, which made Jentha's life a living hell as the Blue Suns leader began second-guessing her constantly.
Commander Shepard encounters Jentha while on a mission to recruit Archangel. If Zaeed Massani is with the squad, Jentha acknowledges Zaeed and Tarak's familiarity. Otherwise, she wonders why Shepard's team isn't outside getting ready for the next wave with the other freelancers. Either way she justifies her leader's disposition and distrust of outsiders. She has some information regarding the plan of attack, Blue Suns operations, and Archangel, and she shares what she knows if questioned.
Later, when Shepard and Archangel are fighting the mercenary groups, Jentha is deployed from Tarak's gunship. She is killed in the ensuing firefight.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Jentha is armed with an M-76 Revenant, one of the most powerful weapons in the game, and on top of that she can mod it with Disruptor Ammo for more damage to shields. While she appears a little less accurate at range than troops armed with rifles or SMGs, she is capable of inflicting much more damage especially at close ranges.

Defensive
Jentha has a high level of shielding, armor, and health. Despite not having any visibile holographic effect surrounding her indicative of having Tech Armor like many other elite Blue Suns operatives, Jentha is nonetheless able to fully restore her shields when depleted, though she will not do so until her armor has been totally destroyed.

Tactics[]
Jentha, along with a squad of Blue Suns Troopers, Centurions and Legionnaires, will attack in the first wave of Blue Suns troops after the appearance of the gunship. Though she is by far the most dangerous member of the group she stays away from the player, taking cover and peering out to fire long bursts from her weapon. She is capable of dealing a lot of damage quickly, but her damage drops off sharply at greater ranges: whether you focus on whittling down her defenses or getting rid of weaker enemies first is up to you.
Flashbang Grenade is an extremely effective power against Jentha and similar elite enemies as it will overheat her weapon for several seconds and suppress secondary abilities such as her shield restoration far longer than that. It also stuns in an area briefly on impact, so toss the grenade (or have Kasumi use it) to create an opening to pop out from cover and shoot her.
When you do focus on her use Overload and Disruptor Ammo in conjunction with SMGs, Assault Rifles, or the Geth Plasma Shotgun for her shields; then use Warp, Incinerate, Incendiary Ammo, Armor Piercing Ammo, and Warp Ammo in conjunction with Heavy Pistols, Sniper Rifles and Assault Rifles for her armor.
Charging as a Vanguard is not recommended before you strip her defenses, especially if there are other minions left in the room.
Do whatever you want once you have reduced her to health, be it freeze her, set her on fire, toss her around with biotics or just shoot her (for a laugh, if you took Dominate as a bonus power, use it and watch her go to town on her fellow mercenaries).
There is no need to worry about Tarak and his gunship as he stays away for the battle after Jentha is deployed, and will not return until later; the EXCEPTION is during the opening moments of the fight soon after Jentha is dropped off: the gunship will launch a volley of rockets through the window at you, so be ready and don't get hit or it's probably lights out.
Trivia[]
Jentha is most noteworthy for possessing a unique human hairstyle unavailable to the female Shepard without third-party modding. In Mass Effect Legendary Edition her hairstyle changed to one that is also available to the female Shepard.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




