




Jon Grissom
Alliance Admiral

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Revelation 


Rear Admiral Jon Grissom is a famed Systems Alliance hero. In 2149 when the Charon Relay was discovered orbiting Pluto and activated, none of the probes sent through had enough power to transmit a message back. The Alliance soon understood that the only way to discover where the relay led was to send a team through it. Grissom was chosen as the team leader and hailed as a hero when he returned, adopted by the masses as one of the great pioneers of human space exploration.
On a personal level, however, Grissom is a sullen, retiring man who doesn't relish the attention. Though he took a leading role during the First Contact War, in 2160, Grissom becomes a recluse on Elysium and refuses any interviews or contact with the Alliance media.

Contents

1 Mass Effect: Revelation
2 Mass Effect: Ascension
3 Mass Effect: Retribution
4 Trivia







“I came here looking for soldiers.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Revelation follow.




Mass Effect: Revelation[]
In 2157, Grissom is en route to Arcturus to meet the new graduates of the N7 program when news of Shanxi broke. Grissom discusses the developing situation with one of the graduates, David Anderson.
After the war, during his retirement on Elysium, Grissom's daughter Kahlee Sanders comes to him for help and tells him of the destruction of Sidon. Grissom hides Kahlee, tries to put Anderson off the case and guards the house with a shotgun by night. When Skarr arrives, Grissom tries to fight him off, but is caught in the krogan's line of fire. Grissom survives but refuses medical treatment to keep Kahlee hidden (a war hero showing up with gunshot wounds would have attracted too much attention). He then uses his connections to get Kahlee secretly off the planet, with Anderson to keep her safe.







“Salvation comes with a cost.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Ascension follow.




Mass Effect: Ascension[]
The Jon Grissom Academy bears Grissom's name. Dr. Jiro Toshiwa's mention of her father (when her relation to Jon Grissom is classified and is only known in a document filed by Anderson) alerts Kahlee Sanders that Jiro is a traitor.







“Your understanding is limited...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Retribution follow.




Mass Effect: Retribution[]
Grissom dies of natural causes in either late 2185 or early 2186, 6 months before the incident involving Paul Grayson.
Hundreds of dignitaries turned out for Grissom's funeral, including David Anderson. Kahlee Sanders, Grissom's daughter, attended as a member of the Jon Grissom Academy faculty in order to maintain the secret that he was her father.
A memorial plaque bearing Grissom's name and likeness was erected in the mess hall of the Jon Grissom Academy.

Trivia[]
Grissom's name may be a reference to the American astronaut Gus Grissom, the second American in space and a member of the Mercury and Gemini space programs. He was also the commander of the ill-fated Apollo 1 mission.



