







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.











Jondum Bau
STG Spectre

Race
Salarian


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect 3


Jondum Bau is a salarian Spectre who also works for the STG. He came across information suggesting high-level hanar officials might be indoctrinated, and sends Commander Shepard an email for assistance in dealing with the problem.
Bau learned that the Alliance conducted a black ops raid on a batarian research station with help from the hanar. The objective was to seize Reaper technology the batarians were studying, although the Alliance ended up with nothing while hanar operatives were suspected to have escaped with tech that was highly likely to indoctrinate them. He obtained the soul names of the hanar involved in the raid, and one of them is now a diplomat on the Citadel. 
Bau came across the intel by paying off the weapons dealer Donovan Hock, or by receiving an anonymous "gift" that he believes came from master thief Kasumi Goto. Bau has been hunting her for years although he professes personal admiration in her talents, deeming her intelligence and skill "almost salarian" (or her attitude, if she died in the suicide mission).
If Shepard meets with him at the Citadel Embassies, Bau deems the investigation necessary, as it will have economic and territorial consequences for the salarians. He's tracking suspicious transmissions between Kahje and the Citadel, and tasks Shepard with checking records that will uncover the name of the diplomat that he otherwise cannot do with a formal inquiry. As Shepard's repeated warnings on the Reapers were downplayed, Bau wants the Commander to know that him and many other Spectres took the concerns seriously.
Following the elimination of two possible suspects, Shepard learns the third suspect just recently came from Kahje. If Kasumi isn't around Bau supposes finding his identity is easier: there shouldn't be many new arrivals as the hanar are a "mildly xenophobic" species. Shepard is surprised at the blunt assessment, although Bau insists he did say "mildly."
The investigation reveals the diplomat Zymandis as the indoctrinated agent. Bau and Shepard proceed to the hanar embassy for the arrest, although Zymandis has admitted to uploading a virus that will cripple Kahje's defense network. Bau attempts to block the transmission, although he is attacked and choked by the hanar's human bodyguard.
If Kasumi isn't around, Shepard is forced to choose between saving Bau or stopping the upload from another console nearby. Bau advises stopping the upload over helping him. If Shepard obeys him, Bau fights off the bodyguard and shoots him and Zymandis, but becomes wounded in the gut. He remarks it has been an honor working with Shepard before collapsing. If Shepard assists Bau, the salarian shoots Zymandis but is too late to work the console. Bau remarks Shepard should've let him die, though the human convinces him they have to pick their battles.
If Kasumi is around, she decloaks and rushes over to the console, freeing Shepard to deal with the bodyguard. Bau then shoots Zymandis, though the console explodes once Kasumi stops the upload. He's suprised to know Kasumi has been with them the whole time, and now she apparently sacrificed herself.
If Bau lives, he pledges to join the war effort with a few friends when the time comes. He also doesn't find out Kasumi survived the blast (if Shepard secured her loyalty) as he leaves the scene first.

Trivia[]
Mass Effect writer Patrick Weekes named Jondum Bau after their colleague, John Dombrow. Dombrow had previously named the character Padok Wiks after Weekes.[1]
References[]

↑ http://twitter.com/#!/PatrickWeekes/status/178318314345480192





