









Jordan Noles
C-Sec Officer

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect 3


Jordan Noles is a C-Sec officer working in the E-Crimes division. 






“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




After the Cerberus attack on the Citadel, Noles loiters outside the C-Sec outpost at the Presidium Commons and requests Commander Shepard's help if they are in the vicinity. She is concerned about security leaks involving old batarian diplomatic codes, and she needs Shepard's Spectre authority in tracking where they were used so she can disable them.
At Huerta Memorial Hospital, Noles discovers that the access codes were used to either cut off power to life-support systems or requisition medical supplies. At Normandy Dock: Bay D24, the codes were used to either engineer an accident that resulted in Alliance casualties the previous week, or tamper with food requests at the refugee center. 
At Docks: Holding Area, Shepard tracks the last location of the code use. If the codes were used in sabotage, Noles' comms is cut off, and when she arrives at the scene the Commander has already dealt with the problem: Ka'hairal Balak, a batarian terrorist, is either killed by Shepard or allowed to walk free. If Balak walks out, Noles asks Shepard if she should arrest him, only for the Commander to invoke Spectre authority in letting him go. If the codes were used for securing provisions, Noles also arrives to find Balak as the culprit, if he was defeated and left for dead at Asteroid X57. If he was arrested or killed back then though, Noles traces and arrests an unnamed batarian instead. If Shepard persuades this batarian to let his people join the war effort, Noles asks if they will actually follow through. She also uncuffs the batarian if Shepard opts to drop all charges during their persuasion spiel. 
Whatever the outcome of the mission, Noles is grateful for Shepard's assist. She may also reiterate the sentiment through mail.
Elsewhere on the Citadel, Noles is a known gamer, having top ten scores in Shattered Eezo and at Armax Arsenal Arena prior to any attempts by Shepard to land at the top. She has also investigated an incident involving holographic vorcha spilling out into the Arena crowd, blaming the affair on mass effect fields as decoy holographic emitters were found at the scene.

Trivia[]
Noles sports slightly different hairstyles between her appearances in the original version of Mass Effect 3 and Mass Effect Legendary Edition.



