







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.











Juliana Baynham
ExoGeni Scientist

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Voice Actor
Mari Weiss


Appearances
Mass Effect


Juliana Baynham is an ExoGeni Corporation scientist, assigned to the growth labs, and a survivor of the geth attack on Feros. She came to Feros with her daughter Lizbeth, wanting to "really make a difference", but, like many colonists on Feros, has since become disillusioned. Juliana can be found at the Skyway Weigh Station.
Despite working at the headquarters, Juliana was unaware of ExoGeni's real interest on Feros, namely the Thorian and its mind-controlling abilities. Juliana hid with other survivors on the Skyway after the geth attacked Feros, but was separated from Lizbeth. She and Ethan Jeong became the de facto leaders of the survivors there, with Juliana acting as the voice of morality and reason in contrast to Jeong's expedient focus on ExoGeni's interests. If Commander Shepard discovers their refuge before going to ExoGeni headquarters, Juliana requests a search for her daughter.
During Shepard's absence, communications are restored and Juliana discovers that ExoGeni is planning to purge the colony. She tries to send a transmission asking for help, but Jeong forces her away from the radio and has her restrained, just as Shepard arrives back. After Jeong has been dealt with, Juliana is shocked to hear about the Thorian but quickly grasps the situation. She offers Shepard the chance to incapacitate the colonists at Zhu's Hope using Thorian-specific nerve gas grenades.
Later, Juliana can be found at Zhu's Hope with Lizbeth. She explains ExoGeni's reaction to the events on Feros. If the colony was saved, she notes that ships are already inbound to resupply the colony. If Jeong survived, she still calls him corrupt though she praises his negotiating skills securing them a good deal. She hopes to turn Zhu's Hope into the biggest colony yet. Alternatively, if too many colonists were killed, she dejectedly mentions boarding the next transport off the planet. She thought Feros still had potential, and was unhappy to give up and be proven wrong. She supposes they'll start over in another colony somewhere.




