







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Kadara Port is a settlement on Kadara ruled by Sloane Kelly, former Nexus security official.
Built at the summit of one of Kadara's highest mountains, Kadara Port was originally a trading centre established by the Heleus Cluster's native angara, but like so much of their civilization, fell on hard times with the kett invasion, and had been conquered by the invaders to serve as a staging ground for their troops on the planet. 
Following the Nexus Uprising, Sloane Kelly led her Outlaw warband known as the Outcasts in a daring surprise attack on the port, swiftly seizing control and all but exterminating Kadara's kett presence. Under her rule, Kadara Port has become a hub of exile activity and the centre of a significant black market economy stretching across much of Heleus. 
The presence of an ancient angara water purification system capable of filtering the sulphuric acid from local groundwater, as well as the security offered by the Outcasts, makes it one of the few relatively safe havens on the planet, a fact Kelly has leveraged to extort the populace with her "protection" fees, with failure to pay resulting in banishment to the harsh badlands beyond. By the time Pathfinder Ryder first arrives, however, this status quo is being threatened by a rival Outlaw group known as the Collective, which seeks to take control of Kadara Port for themselves. 

Layout[]
Kadara Port serves as the initial point of entry to the world. It is is divided into four zones:

The Docks
Kadara Market
Kralla's Song
Outcast Headquarters
Kadara Slums is located beneath the port.

Residents[]
Armor Merchant
Arms Dealer
Colt Dalton
Grayson Wessler
Jataa
Jim
Kaetus
Keema Dohrgun
Mods Merchant
Reyes Vidal
Sloane Kelly
Umi Henon
Vehn Terev
Velus
Missions[]



Priority Ops
Hunting the Archon


Allies and Relationships
Nakmor Drack: Knock 'em Down
Peebee: Reclaiming Poc




Heleus Assignments
Behind Enemy Lines
Counting Bodies
Healing Kadara's Heart
High Noon
Mixed Messages
Movie Night: Better Snacks
Movie Night: The Final Piece
Murder in Kadara Port
Night on the Town
Out of the Frying Pan
Safe Journeys
The Search for Ljeta


Additional Tasks
Task: Beer Run
Task: Cultivation
Task: Searching for Morga




