



Kadara Market serves as Kadara Port's center of commerce for exchanging goods of all shapes and sizes. 

Contents

1 Layout
2 Missions
3 Characters
4 Datapads







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Layout[]
The market occupies most of Kadara Port's main level, bounded to the south by The Docks, to the north by Outcast Headquarters, and to the east by Kralla's Song. The observation deck upstairs between the docks and the market is also split according to location. Shops that operate in the market sell mods, weapons, and armor.
Below the floor grates in front of the entrance to Kralla's Song is part of the port's water filtration system. A female angaran corpse can be seen in the pipes there, though none of the port's denizens notice or care except for her sister who only knows she's missing and is looking for her.
A maintenance shaft outside the armor shop leads to the prison wing of the Outcast Headquarters, normally inaccessible unless Pathfinder Ryder antagonizes Sloane Kelly on their first meeting. Following a prisoner breakout orchestrated by Ryder and Reyes Vidal in response to Sloane's belligerence, the Outcasts discover this breach and seal it up again later.
On subsequent visits, Jaal Ama Darav and Cora Harper can be found here loitering and checking out the stalls, respectively.

Missions[]



Allies and Relationships
Peebee: Remnant Scanner


Heleus Assignments
Movie Night: Better Snacks
Movie Night: The Final Piece
Murder in Kadara Port


Additional Tasks
Task: Beer Run
Task: Searching for Morga

Characters[]
Armor Merchant
Arms Dealer
Jataa
Mods Merchant
Outcast Recruiter
Datapads[]



Personal Log: Jun-seo Noh
(Detailed Drawing of a Manta)

New entry: For the first time in... I guess 600 years, I feel like I can breathe. Sure, the air smells like shit, but I've got a roof over my head and food in my gut. No more running. No more Armageddon planet after Armageddon planet. I can finally just… explore. That was the whole point, right?

I'm gonna start with figuring out the migration patterns of those Manta creatures. Maybe Ligyr knows. This is her home planet after all.

END LOG









Personal Log: Ado
New entry: Saw an asari placing cameras around the port. Little things. Hard to find, hard to see. Must be a Collective operative. The Charlatan's eyes and ears.

Asked Shelly if I should tell Sloane's guards. She said it would only bring trouble. Probably right. Don't want to get caught up in the crossfire. Better to keep a low profile.

END LOG









Best Booze in Universe Has Moved!
Those jerks shut me down and kicked me out of Kadara Port. If you want *real* booze, not the wash they serve here, come to my secret stash spot. If you dare… dun-dun-dun.

Zed





If Vehn Terev was freed, this datapad will appear near the maintenance shaft used in his escape:




Report: Superintendent Tauris
Beia:

Tell Kaetus, it wasn't negligence on our part. Checked the security log. Whoever busted that Vehn guy out knew the access code. Can't do much to protect against that, unless they want to put in the money for more guards. In the meantime, I've changed the codes again.

Tauris







