









Kaira Stirling




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Armament
Shotgun, Pistol


Abilities
 Barrier Lift Throw


Health
Moderate


Shields
Low


Locations
Noveria


Sergeant Kaira Stirling is a security officer at Port Hanshan, on Noveria. The ERCS guards jokingly dub her their "secret weapon", as she is a biotic.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
Kaira Stirling is encountered by Commander Shepard near the entrance to Port Hanshan, as part of a security detail with Captain Maeko Matsuo. She is unimpressed by Shepard's arrival, and does not believe that the Commander is a human Spectre. She is even suspicious of Shepard's Alliance Navy rank, saying it is at least two weeks until the next naval patrol is due. She demands the Commander and the squad turn over their weapons upon their arrival at Port Hanshan: the confrontation becomes hostile until Gianna Parasini manages to defuse it by confirming Shepard's Spectre status. Nevertheless, Stirling remains aggressive and rude towards Shepard.
If Shepard aids Lorik Qui'in in retrieving corruption evidence against Administrator Anoleis, Stirling reappears at the Synthetic Insights office after Shepard has been forced to kill several corrupt Port Hanshan guards. Stirling proclaims that regardless of the alleged corruption, and Spectre or not, Shepard is a cop killer. The squad can offer an opinion on Stirling's shaky moral high ground before the conversation turns to combat and Stirling is killed.

Tactics[]
As an offensive biotic, Stirling is the high-priority target in her initial 3-man squad. She usually attempts to unleash a talent at the end of your confrontational dialogue, so beat her to the punch and dispose of her first.
As she is at the center of her team, any area-effect talent or weapon modded with the right upgrades aimed at her can hit all three of them at once. A sniper rifle modded with High Explosive rounds will send her and her cronies flying into the nearby walls and ceiling, effectively taking her out of the fight for a while assuming she survives the hit in the first place.
If available, use Neural Shock or Throw against Kaira as soon as the fight starts. This will immobilize her before she can get off a single attack, making the fight considerably easier.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





