









Kalja
Saboteur

Race
Angara


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Kalja is a trapper that can be encountered in Kadara's Sulfur Springs. She lives alone in a meager dwelling protected by boulders, barricades, and not much else.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




If Pathfinder Ryder goes near her encampment, she warns over comms that she's willing to hit them with a corrosive bomb, and has already killed two looters that day for crossing her. Ryder announces they're friendly, and she allows them to approach her slowly to prove it. On closer inspection she decides the Pathfinder's team don't look like outlaws, and considers it fortunate her traps are disabled at the time. 
She's used to Ryder's kind shooting at her all the time, or trying to rob her or mess with the local Remnant. It was enough for her to take action first on any subsequent encounters. If the Pathfinder claims they're not all bad, Kalja supposes Ryder not shooting yet is a start. 
Kalja has taken it upon herself to defend her fellow angara who have been driven out of their homes by kett and outlaws, especially those who are unwilling/unable to settle elsewhere. When shooting at targets didn't suffice, she learned how to sabotage and created her traps using corrosive gas from vents.
If Ryder suggests her talents could be useful to the Resistance, she declines to join as she's busy keeping her people alive, and she doesn't think the human knows much about the Resistance. If Jaal Ama Darav is around, however, he warns her her people will never be safe. She questions his observations, and Jaal reasons the kett will inevitably focus on Kadara. 

Ryder can either convince her to go on the offense instead of playing defense, or that she can make a better home for her people, with Jaal interjecting not just on Kadara but everywhere. Whichever the case, she resolves to go to Voeld to check out the Resistance, but makes no promises. 
Consequently she can be found on the Angaran Resistance Base, where she grudgingly admits that she joined. She discourages further talk, reminding the Pathfinder they have somewhere else to be.




