









Kallo Jath
Pilot

Race
Salarian


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
Garett Ross[1]


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda



“We built her for this. She deserves to be in a Pathfinder's hands. Please, come by anytime.”
Kallo Jath is the pilot of the starship Tempest, having served in that role since its early prototype days. He narrates the Andromeda Initiative's introductory briefing to the ND1 Nomad and Tempest vehicles.

Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect: Andromeda
3 Correspondence
4 References







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
See also: Codex (Mass Effect: Andromeda)/The Andromeda Initiative#Kallo Jath
Kallo Jath was born on Sur'Kesh, where he was pushed towards a lucrative but dull bureaucratic career with Parohe Aerospace. Kallo became more interested in flying the starships he was meant to be cataloguing. He eventually left Sur'Kesh for formal pilot training and joined Parohe's competitor as a test pilot. Parohe Aerospace's fervent disparagement of Kallo piqued Jien Garson's interest and in time, Kallo was recruited to join the Initiative's Tempest design team, where he test-flew early prototypes.
Having invested so much effort in designing the Tempest, Kallo was the only member of the Tempest design team to make the trip to Andromeda so he can bear witness to how the Tempest fared when in active service. He sees Andromeda as a new and exciting place, where he hopes his race can leave behind the stereotypes of the Milky Way. When speaking to Pathfinder Ryder, Kallo expresses loneliness at the disappearance of the salarian ark.
Kallo has a strong eidetic memory even by salarian standards, and he recalls his teammates from six centuries past as clearly as he's seeing Ryder in the present.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Kallo first meets Ryder shortly after the latter assumes command of the Tempest. He has an abundance of stories about the ship's construction and its designers, as well as opinions on present crew, although he inevitably tries to rein in his blabbermouth tendencies. As a salarian, he can also give basic information about his race.

During the exploration of the Heleus Cluster Kallo and engineer Gil Brodie bicker about the modifications Gil has been making to the Tempest. Kallo believes that Gil is disrespecting the planning and effort his team made to perfect the design of the Tempest while Gil believes that his redesigns are necessary to adapt to the problems of the Pathfinder's mission. Eventually this boils down to a head when Gil reconfigures the ship's nav array: Kallo storms off and confronts Gil in the research room in full view of several crewmates. Ryder must side with either Kallo or Gil's way of doing things. 
If Ryder admonishes Kallo's traditionalism, he loses interest in reminiscing about the Tempest's designers afterward. If Ryder prohibits Gil from making changes on the fly, it's revealed Kallo clings to the memory of his long-gone teammates: no one's really dead while someone still remembers them, and keeping the Tempest as is is his own way of immortalizing them. Ryder can agree with his sentiments, or attempt to convince him to let go, though he says it's probably easier for humans to do the latter.
Eventually, Kallo offers an olive branch to Gil by offering him the Tempest's schematics that he committed to memory. Gil and Kallo find common ground in appreciating the artistry of the Tempest's design and working together to innovate the Tempest.
Kallo has a more cordial relationship with fellow bridgemate Dr. Suvi Anwar, and even calls her his best friend sometime after the Eos vault's activation. When Suvi received news reporting improved planetary conditions, Kallo becomes excited and attempts to persuade Ryder to revisit the Prodromos outpost there. He reasons if he was the one who created a thriving new community in a brand new galaxy he'd want to check back, as a sort of "almost vacation". Suvi claims he'd have more to look forward once the beach and waterslide are installed, though Kallo goodnaturedly thinks she's just kidding.
After Ryder's retrieval of the Moshae, Kallo chats with Suvi about the outcome. If the exaltation base was destroyed, he deems the Moshae's rescue a win, though Suvi wishes they could've saved more.

Correspondence[]
Received upon returning to the Tempest after activating the Remnant vault on Eos:




Tempest Hacks
To: Ryder
From: Kallo

Hello Ryder,

I'm pleased to report the Tempest is operating at peak efficiency.  So, now that you're in command, I thought I'd share a few secret shipboard hacks that the designers and I sneaked into her code. Just send the code JCSB through your omni-tool to open the debug command menu.

-GiveAllDispen: lets you use the coffee dispenser in the galley an unlimited number of times
-WaterTempOverride: overrides the normal hot water ration in the showers
-JumpWashQueue: puts your clothing ahead of everyone else's in the auto laundry cycle.

Enjoy! And don't share them around.


Kallo


References[]

↑ https://www.twitter.com/CabLivingstone/status/819651240544047104


Andromeda Initiative Briefing 3: Tempest and Nomad



