









Kate Bowman
Engineer

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Voice Actor
Audrey Wasilewski


Appearances
Mass EffectMass Effect 2


Kate Bowman is an engineer on Asteroid X57. Sister to security personnel Aaron Bowman, they were onboard the asteroid when it was prematurely sent to the vicinity of Terra Nova.

Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect
3 Mass Effect 2
4 Trivia







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Background[]
Kate was persuaded to work on X57 by Aaron, who claimed it would be an adventure.
Kate has a positive impression on some of her colleagues. Simon Atwell, who dubs her "Katie", describes her as a brilliant but headstrong person. She attributes the trait as something that runs in the family, as her father was with the Alliance back on Earth.
When batarian terrorists invaded the asteroid and activated the fusion torches that pushed it toward the colony, Kate hid in the main facility with her brother. She furtively transmitted distress calls to anyone who can help. 

Mass Effect[]
The signals are picked up by the SSV Normandy. Upon confirming that her transmissions have been answered, Kate hails her potential rescuer and provides intelligence on enemy movements, keeping her voice hushed and her calls brief to avoid detection.

Once two of the three fusion torches are deactivated Kate's hiding place is discovered. Balak, leader of the terrorists, demands to know who's shutting down the torches while pointing a gun at Aaron. She refuses to tell him anything, opting instead to turn her back so she wouldn't have to see Balak executing her brother.
Along with a few other hostages, Kate is imprisoned in an office containing an explosive. She attempts to defuse the bomb on her own. Outside, her rescuer faces off with Balak and determines her fate: if the terrorist was allowed to go free, Kate and the hostages live. If not, the bomb explodes, killing them.
If Balak was allowed to leave, Kate and the hostages have a few more minutes' worth of tension as the other bombs in the main facility are also defused. Once the hostages are set free she converses with her rescuer and finally learns who they are: Commander Shepard. She thanks the Commander for everything, but grieves the loss of her brother, whose corpse was unceremoniously stashed in a dark corner of the office. She wants Shepard to remember her brother if the Commander crosses paths with Balak again.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
In 2185, news snippets on the Citadel report on Kate's death if Shepard never stopped the asteroid drop.
If Balak wasn't allowed to escape at the expense of his hostages, the news reports that Reverend Michael Bowman, her father, holds a ceremony for the lost workers on the asteroid. 
If Kate survived, news snippets will instead report that she was expected to read a thank-you message to the Alliance soldiers who rescued her at an upcoming anniversary celebration of the thwarted terrorist attack on Terra Nova. She also sends the Commander the following message instead, titled "Glad you're okay."





From: Kate Bowman

Shepard,

I called in some favors and found out how to get you and what you're working on. We've got a big celebration planned for the anniversary of you and the others saving Terra Nova. Last year we added a memorial for you, too. I guess that was premature, huh?

I figure finding out who's attacking colonies is why you had to go undercover, so I won't invite you to come give a speech or anything. But I wanted you to know that all of us living on colonies are worried about what's happening in the Terminus Systems. And I'm really glad you're there to help. There's a lot of crazy military talk going around. I'm glad someone's there who's not going to take the easy way out.

Thanks.


Kate Bowman


Trivia[]
Kate's model has been slightly retouched in Mass Effect Legendary Edition compared to the original game.



