









Keema Dohrgun
Angaran Representative

Race
Angara


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Keema Dohrgun is the angaran representative to the leadership of Kadara Port. She is an associate of Reyes Vidal. A genial person who tends to judge individuals over groups, she's also shrewd and discreet enough to keep her options open for opportunities.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Keema's job entails counselling Outcast leader Sloane Kelly regarding matters concerning the angara under her rule. She has access to the Outcasts more than the average citizen, though Sloane barely listens to her as she prioritizes the needs of her gang first over publicly-declared pro-angaran sentiment.
Keema met Reyes through business, eventually becoming one of the few who know of his identity as the Charlatan, leader of the Collective. One of the conditions for securing her cooperation is that she's installed as Kadara Port's leader if Sloane is removed from power. She advised him to let Pathfinder Ryder in on the secret early, though he was concerned about what Ryder would think.
Though she shares intel with Evfra de Tershaav on occasion, Keema isn't part of the Angaran Resistance. She prioritizes Kadara's problems first as any local power struggle will invariably make the angara suffer.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
The Pathfinder can meet Keema for the first time in Outcast Headquarters, though the circumstances may be drastically different. 
Keema secured invites to one of Sloane's parties for Reyes, who in turn may want to invite Ryder with him. Should Ryder accept, Keema greets them on arrival, announcing she's glad to meet the one Reyes talks the most about lately (if Ryder expresses interest in him). Reyes leaves Ryder in her care as he has business nearby, though Keema assures the Pathfinder he does things for good reason.

Should Ryder reject the invite but then support the Collective's bid for power later, they can meet Keema for the first time in Outcast HQ not as a guest but as its ruler, sitting in Sloane's chair and enjoying drags out of a cigar. She's the public face of the new regime, though the real power resides with the Charlatan behind the scenes.
She isn't concerned about being a figurehead since she does more than sit on her ass: the Charlatan takes her advice more than Sloane ever did, allowing her to be more proactive in governing. They do differ on how to treat Sloane's remaining confidant Kaetus: the Charlatan wants to mine him for information while Keema advocates for simply executing him. 
The general mood on Kadara has improved since the angara are happy to have one of their own in charge again, though there are some among Keema's own people who are skeptical of her competence and aren't afraid to voice it at port.




