







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.





KEI-9 is a dog-mech that was left behind by an engineer working on the overhaul of the Normandy SR-2. The engineer sends Commander Shepard an email about the mech and requests that the Commander take care of it for her. It appears to be a smaller model of the FENRIS Mech.
KEI-9 spends its time roaming the shuttle bay of the SR-2, occasionally projecting blue beams onto its surroundings. If Shepard stands in one spot or blocks the dog-mech's path long enough, KEI-9 goes into sleep mode by the Commander's feet. 
If engineer Gabriella Daniels is aboard, she may be overheard referring to the dog-mech as "Sophie" during a conversation with partner Kenneth Donnelly.
In very, very rare circumstances, Shepard may give the dog-mech a new name: "Bolto". The mech chirps in apparent disapproval, prompting Shepard to take it back.

Email



KEI-9Subject: My Dog

Dear Commander Shepard:

I was a contractor working on the Normandy's haptic interface when it was in dry dock. Your VI, EDI, emailed me to let me know I left my dog-mech on board.

I'm all the way out in Terra Nova now and would hate for you to go a million clicks out of your way to drop off my dog. Please just take care of her. She likes exploring, sniffing chemical trails, and 750 volt outlets.

Thank you and sorry for the trouble. I promise she won't be too much of a headache.

Andrea Brown




Trivia
KEI-9 is only available as DLC in the N7 Collector's Edition Pack for Mass Effect 3 or by default in Mass Effect Legendary Edition.
The name KEI-9 appears to be a play on the word "canine".
KEI-9 is a purely cosmetic addition to the Normandy. It is not a squad member, unlike Dog from BioWare's other main series Dragon Age.
Dialogue with KEI-9 usually consists of curt dog-owner responses or commands. It also locks out after one interaction, although reloading the shuttle bay via a save or elevator can reset it. More interactions can be obtained if the use button is pressed in quick succession. Getting Shepard to rename the dog "Bolto" is exceedingly difficult due to these conditions.
KEI-9's response isn't audible in the original version of Mass Effect 3, though it is clearly heard in Legendary Edition.



