









Nakmor Kesh
Nexus Superintendent

Race
Krogan


Gender
Female


Voice Actor
Allegra Clark


Appearances
Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus UprisingMass Effect: Andromeda


Nakmor Kesh is the Superintendent of the Nexus and a member of Clan Nakmor. She was part of the core team of station engineers who built the Nexus and describes her current role on the station as "fixer-in-chief." Kesh is in charge of keeping the Nexus functional, which includes maintaining systems, integrating any returning arks, and overseeing construction efforts.

Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising
3 Mass Effect: Andromeda
4 References







“Same shit. Different galaxy.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising follow.









“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Kesh was born on Tuchanka, back in the Milky Way. She claims she was considered frail as a child, but an attentive upbringing by her grandfather, Nakmor Drack, allowed her to flourish. 
Unlike many of her kind, a younger Kesh made ample time to read, sparking her early interest in engineering and civil construction. She was still fascinated with destruction though, as can be attested by Drack. The first time Kesh got her hands on a toolkit she took apart a power generator with the blunt side, and enjoyed the fireworks that followed. Eventually she learned that opening bigger things made even bigger sparks. She wasn't naturally gifted in engineering, but she worked hard at it.
Records from the Nexus uprising show Kesh played a key role in keeping the station operational during the crisis. Her strong management and knowledge of the station makes her an irreplaceable member of the Nexus leadership.  Furthermore, Kesh's presence ensures that the krogan still have a powerful voice on the Nexus despite their departure from the station. Kesh and Director Jarun Tann are often at odds, especially since Kesh likes vexing Tann by addressing him as "Number Eight". Kesh explains the nickname is her humbling reminder to Tann that he was eighth in line to take over the Andromeda Initiative.
Kesh cultivated a number of friendships in the Initiative, some of which she had a hand in directly recruiting. Among them is the gifted smuggler Vetra Nyx, as well as life support engineer Calix Corvannis and his close-knit crew.

Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising[]
This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 


Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Kesh played an instrumental role in preventing krogan aggression from destroying the Nexus. In the aftermath of a reneged deal between Assistant Deputy Director William Spender and Nakmor Morda, Kesh was able to convince Morda to lead the Krogan into exile. Morda successfully established the New Tuchanka colony on Elaaden, while Kesh remained aboard the Nexus to ensure that her people retained a voice in the fledgling project.
When Pathfinder Ryder first meets the Nexus leaders, they were disappointed to discover that they no longer had Alec Ryder as the human pathfinder and were skeptical of his offspring's chances to resolve the Nexus' problems. Kesh is optimistic about Alec's successor and urges the other leaders to give Ryder a chance. Kesh then shows them that the Hyperion's core is now powering the Nexus' depleted generators. Since Ryder helped keep the lights on, they gave the Nexus hope and thus have earned Kesh's support.
Kesh holds office in Operations, in a room with views of the Nexus' central torus. Once Drack joins the Pathfinder's team, she occasionally banters with him when he visits. She can be heard talking to people over comms at times. One time Tann attempts to speak with her, Kesh tepidly fakes a bad comm connection to avoid discussions with him. She's more cordial with other people: Tiran Kandros needs a console up and running, Kesh promises to send an engineer ASAP. Del Jasin is harassed by Spender, she cooks up a way to make him go away.
At one time Kesh unexpectedly hears they're out of some materials. The Operations Manager at the other end reasons that Vetra, who's now working with Ryder, was efficient at her former job, an assessment Kesh agrees with.
After the founding of Prodromos, Kesh can be seen reporting to Tann over vidcon: the commons area is still being prepared and Hydroponics is only at partial capacity. She doesn't have enough people and the ones she has need a break, although the Director isn't in the mood for excuses. 
A short while later, she strolls into Pathfinder HQ with Kandros to talk to Ryder about outposts. She approves if Prodromos is a scientific outpost, as improved research could help feed their people. Conversely she expresses some concern if it is a military outpost, also citing food supply as a factor.
If Ryder chooses to keep the Ancient AI from Voeld, Kesh will send them a message acknowledging receipt. Despite the property damage and the synthetic's acts of hostility, she promises to keep it between the two of them.




Is this a joke?
From: Kesh
Uh...what did you send me? At first I thought it was a joke, but no, you sent me a hostile AI.

Ryder?!

Got her set up all cozy and tethered in SAM node—but not before she spaced a couple crates of supplies headed for Prodromos and displaced the gravity in Pathfinder HQ. I didn't tell Tann or the others.

For now this'll be our little secret.




After Vorn's rescue from outlaws, Vorn can reveal that he is courting Kesh. If spoken to at his stall, Vorn can ask Ryder to give Kesh a flower. When Kesh receives the flower, Kesh criticizes the gift for its impracticality to the krogans' survival. Even so, Kesh shows a desire to keep and care for the flower plant, implicating she is secretly touched by the sentimental gesture.
Should Ryder had previously saved Drack's scouts, Drack later reveals to Ryder that Kesh gave birth to a healthy clutch of krogan infants sometime after the Archon's defeat. He also states that they should "Keep this to themselves". Vorn can reveal he is the father of the infants.

References[]
Mass Effect Andromeda: A Tour of the Nexus - IGN 
Andromeda Initiative Training Hub - Arks and Nexus



