




Kestrel Armor






Effects
+30% Melee Damage+5% Headshot Damage+11% Weapon Damage+25% Shield Strength+5% Spare Heavy Weapon Ammo CapacityNote: If all pieces equipped.


Starting Health
200


Starting Shields
312


Availability
Aegis Pack



The Kestrel Armor system is a customizable set of armor in Mass Effect 2. It was made available as downloadable content on July 6, 2010 as part of the Aegis Pack. In Legendary Edition, the full set is available for purchase at Serrice Technology on Illium.

Contents

1 Customization
2 Player Notes
3 Head
4 Chest
5 Shoulders
6 Arms
7 Legs
8 E-Mail from the Illusive Man
9 Mass Effect 3
10 Trivia


Customization[]
Main article: Armor Customization
The Kestrel Armor can be customized by swapping out pieces of the set for pieces of the N7 Armor, purchased from merchants, or made available as downloadable content, by using the armor locker aboard the Normandy SR-2.

Player Notes[]
The Kestrel Armor is an excellent choice for both Vanguards and Sentinels. Sentinels benefit from the high shield boost and Vanguards benefit from the shield, weapon damage and melee damage boosts.
A Soldier specializing in close range combat would also find the Kestrel Armor useful for many of the same reasons as a Vanguard, especially since it is available right from the start.
The Kestrel Armor's "mix and match" capability gives it more flexibility than other DLC armor, since the separate pieces can be used according to the player's taste.
The Kestrel armor all together provides more generalized bonuses, in addition to the high shield boost. If no other option strongly recommends itself, it's often wiser to use as much of the armor as you can, given how many of its bonuses are incrementally distributed among its several pieces.

Head[]


Name

Image

Description

Effects


Kestrel Helmet



The Kestrel armor system's helmet forgoes traditional transparent visors in favor of a reinforced faceplate with an internal heads-up display. The display connects to redundant microcameras to allow naturalistic vision, and the helmet's weapon autotargeting and shield software provides a substantial boost to performance.

Increases head shot damage by 5%Increases weapon damage by 3%Increases shields by 3%

Chest[]


Name

Image

Description

Effects


Kestrel Torso Sheath



The Kestrel armor system's spinal-mount processor synchronizes artificial torso muscle fibers with limb movements, allowing power to be generated by the legs, channeled through the core, and projected out through the arms. Stabilization of the firing platform assists in autotargeting, and waist-mounted capacitors add to the power of kinetic barriers.

Increases melee damage by 10%Increases weapon damage by 5%Increases shield strength by 3%

Shoulders[]


Name

Image

Description

Effects


Kestrel Shoulder Pieces



The Kestrel armor system's shoulder plates house backup capacitors for shield generation. Artificial muscle fibers based on spider silk reinforce the shoulders, allowing for more powerful movements.

Increases shields by 8%Increases melee damage by 10%

Arms[]


Name

Image

Description

Effects


Kestrel Arm Sheathing 



Artificial muscle fibers controlled by the Kestrel armor system's central processor allow for both gross motor movements and precision support of the hands. This steadies aim in a manner compatible with most firearm autotargeting systems. Additional capacitors for shield generation are installed on the ulnar side of the forearm.

Increases weapon damage by 3%Increases shields by 3%Increases melee damage by 10%

Legs[]


Name

Image

Description

Effects


Kestrel Power Pack



The Kestrel armor system's hip-mounted power pack provides emergency energy for kinetic barriers and heavy weapons.

Increases shields by 8%Increases heavy weapon ammo capacity by 5%

E-Mail from the Illusive Man[]



From: Illusive Man

Shepard,

Our armor technicians have had a lively debate about the Kestrel armor system. The suit is supposed to be effective on its own merits, but the technicians felt its shield algorithms were best exploited piecemeal in custom arrangements by combining it with other armors. I've shipped the Kestrel suit to the Normandy. It has modular programming so that you can mix and match the parts you wish.




Mass Effect 3[]
In Mass Effect 3, a similar armor in appearance to the Kestrel Armor is available in the form of Rosenkov Materials pieces, also possessing different attributes to the Kestrel Armor pieces of Mass Effect 2. The helmet, however, is referred to as the "Kestrel" helmet.

Trivia[]
In real life, Kestrel body armour is a single piece body armor unit that was issued to troops in the British Armed Forces to protect against the effects of IED detonations but was withdrawn in 2006, as the rigidity of the design left the wearer almost unable to operate their weapon system.




Mass Effect 2 Armor




Armor Customization • Armor Upgrades


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Assault Armor • Collector Chitin Armor  Inferno Armor • Terminus Armor • Kestrel Armor





Mass Effect 2 Downloadable Content




Promotional

Blood Dragon Armor • Collectors' Weapon and Armor • Inferno Armor  M-29 Incisor Sniper Rifle • Terminus Weapon and Armor


Cerberus Network

Zaeed - The Price of Revenge • Normandy Crash Site  Cerberus Weapon and Armor • Arc Projector • Firewalker Pack


Missions

Kasumi - Stolen Memory • Overlord • Lair of the Shadow Broker • Arrival


Additional Content

Alternate Appearance Packs •  Equalizer Pack • Aegis Pack • Firepower Pack  Mass Effect: Genesis • Recon Operations Pack • N7 Complete Arsenal Bundle




