









Kim Connor
Supply Officer

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Kim Connor is the quartermaster for Prodromos. She manages the supply chains going into and out of the colony's development.

Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect: Andromeda







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Connor had a privileged upbringing in the Milky Way. She used to be an executive of the ExSolar Shipping company, had millions of credits to her name, and was blessed with five daughters. However, one of her asari partners initiated a hostile takeover and attempted to bankrupt her family. She had already invested in the Andromeda Initiative out of a desire for a simpler life, but she couldn't leave her children behind destitute.
Connor saw assassination as an inelegant solution, and because her family was threatened she wouldn't be as merciful as to simply have her rival arrested. She exploited loopholes in asari tax law that protected one's wealth for centuries. As she's technically alive for 600 years in cryostasis, this ensured her descendants were provided for. In Andromeda, she sleeps well at night knowing her rival "chokes on bitter tears."
Aboard the Nexus, Connor became friends with fellow logistics mistress Vetra Nyx. They worked together to procure supplies for the Tempest. Later, she joined the settlers of Prodromos once Pathfinder Ryder gave the all-clear for Eos, citing a need for solid ground beneath her feet.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
The supply officer has a particular talent for haggling. Several Eos personnel recall a time she negotiated slightly-used weapons and armor for "next to nothing" from some salvagers.
Connor refuses to talk about Vetra whenever she's in Ryder's squad, but she'll share her impressions on the "Queen Quartermaster" once that's rectified. Similarly, she's reluctant to share her personal life, only doling out information in bits upon the Pathfinder's persistence.

The supply officer provides updates to her fields of expertise as the Pathfinder comes into contact with more factions and places. She is one of the people who keep up to date on Ryder's exploits across the cluster, and often has something to say regarding major developments.
If asked about the outpost's trading partners, initially, she reports trading only with the Nexus and a few independent salvagers and miners. Once official first contact with the angara has been established, she gains contacts from Aya who are willing to trade, describes their wares as "novel", and the overall state to be favorable. After Ryder's reconnection with the exile powerbase at Kadara Port, the supply officer mentions being leery on sources there given their untrustworthy reputation. She trades up on armor and munitions so outsiders won't mistake Prodromos for a soft target. 
After Meridian's occupation, Connor also reports they're open for business, thinking it similar to "trading with Atlantis". She deems it a good omen their first and most remote settlements are now assisting one another.
If asked about the local supply situation, at the start Connor informs Ryder the Nexus supplied them with basic necessities and it's her job to provide for the rest. She dryly quips on the prospect of feeding a barracks full of soldiers if Prodromos is military, and on a scientific Prodromos, she vows to get the labs what they need as they can't run without good logistics. Later, on a scientific Prodromos, she gains enough to support mining and exploration teams, and mentions having enough fuel for Hainly Abrams' labs. 
Eventually she reports running out of construction materials as fast as she could source them, but she sees it as a sign they're growing. There are few complaints as long as she has toilet paper. Once the overall situation on Heleus has improved, Connor tells Ryder they have enough to greet their favorite Pathfinder. 
With the discovery and claiming of Meridian, Connor reports she and August Bradley have begun stockpiling essentials like food, fuel, and element zero underground. They are no longer in lean times, and they can afford emergency preparations now.
If the Roekaar stage an attack on Prodromos, Connor praises Ryder and Bradley's efforts in repelling them. If Prodromos is a scientific outpost, she's even more proud of the fact that "simple researchers and colonists" aren't easy prey.




