




Klendagon

Region
Milky Way / Hawking Eta / Century





Planet View


Orbital Distance
1.615 AU


Orbital Period
2.3 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.796


Radius
7,377 km


Day Length
53.6 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.64 atm


Surface Temp
−53 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.88 g


Mass
1.169 Earth Masses


Satellites
Presrop


Location: Milky Way / Hawking Eta / Century System /  Second planet

Prerequisite: Collector Ship (mission) or Project Firewalker: Rosalie Lost (Mass Effect 2)

Contents

1 Description
2 Mineral Deposits

2.1 Mass Effect 2


3 Properties
4 Trivia


Description[]
Klendagon is an arid terrestrial, slightly larger than Earth, but with a lower density that reflects its relative lack of heavier elements. The crust is composed of tin and aluminum, with wide deserts of dust-fine sand that are easily stirred by the wind.
Klendagon's most striking feature is, of course, the Great Rift valley that stretches across the southern hemisphere. What is most fascinating about the Rift is that it does not appear to be natural. The geological record suggests it is the result of a "glancing blow" by a mass accelerator round of unimaginable destructive power. This occurred some thirty-seven million years ago.

Mineral Deposits[]
Mass Effect 2[]
Initial Scanner Result: Rich



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

High

12,200


Platinum

Medium

8,000


Iridium

Medium

9,300


Element Zero

None

0








“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Properties[]
It is revealed by the Illusive Man that an Alliance Survey Team discovered that the Great Rift Valley was caused by a strike from a mass accelerator round. The original target of that round was the Derelict Reaper, which was hit and disabled 37 million years ago. No trace remains of the race that fired the round. However, he also indicates that both the weapon and the target have been located, mentioning in passing that the weapon was defunct.
Trivia[]
Klendagon's artwork, visible from Presrop's surface, is actually a real-life depiction of Mars. The 'Great Rift Valley' — the massive trench dug into Klendagon from the mass accelerator round — is actually the Valles Marineris. The same artwork is used to represent the satellites of Altahe, Chohe, and Trebin.
A default planet texture is used in Mass Effect 2, so the Great Rift Valley and any other distinctive features cannot be seen.
Klendagon's albedo comes out to −1.55, which means that the planet is too hot for its distance from the sun. Its atmosphere likely supports a greenhouse effect.



