




Klensal

Region
Milky Way / Hades Gamma / Dis





Planet View


Orbital Distance
7.15 AU


Orbital Period
21.4 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.798


Radius
5,447 km


Day Length
37.2 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.58 atm


Surface Temp
−35 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.86 g


Mass
0.623 Earth Masses


Satellites
1


Location: Milky Way / Hades Gamma / Dis System /  Third planet

Prerequisite: UNC: Hostile Takeover (Mass Effect)

Contents

1 Description
2 Assignments
3 Points of Interest
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Lifeforms
6 Search and Rescue
7 Properties
8 Trivia


Description[]
Klensal has a thin atmosphere of carbon dioxide and ethane. Its first geological surveys were performed by batarians, and suggested areas of great mineral wealth. Human mining concerns spent billions of credits hustling to the distant system and sinking test bores to claim the system for humanity.
But Klensal had only an average level of mineral wealth – valuable, but hardly worth the rush and expense. Merida Industria, a small Mexican company hoping to strike it rich in their first extrasolar mining venture, had to file for bankruptcy protection.
Investigation revealed the batarian crew had deliberately falsified their surveys, hoping it would encourage human rivals to invest in a costly boondoggle. While unethical, this was not technically illegal, and the batarian government disavowed the "personal actions of a few misguided patriots." The planet is still littered with abandoned mining bases, which are often used as temporary meeting places for criminals.

Assignments[]
Assignment: UNC: Hostile Takeover
Collection: UNC: Locate Signs of Battle: League of One Medallion ×1
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals: Heavy Metal ×1 / Light Metal ×1
Points of Interest[]



Location

Appearance

Description


1

Initial

Syndicate hideout (UNC: Hostile Takeover)


2

Initial

Crashed escape pod (not salvageable)


3

Initial

Mummified salarian (UNC: Locate Signs of Battle)
  
“This dead traveler had a League of One medallion. Where he found it and what he was trying to do with it is unclear.”




4

Initial

Crashed probe (salvageable: Hard Electronics)


Mineral Deposits[]

Main article: UNC: Valuable Minerals


Location

Element

Class


1

Platinum

Heavy


2

Beryllium

Light


Lifeforms[]
Mercenaries
Mercenary Snipers
Crime Boss
Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Salvage - 10,000 credits
Properties[]
Klensal's operational area features a rolling terrain beyond the initial landing zone. Hilly climbs to reach points of interest are expected.
The mummified salarian's location can be seen from the local syndicate hideout. The snipers there can scope and accurately pick targets on the hill, but the same cannot be done vice versa.

Trivia[]
If the "mummified" salarian is examined closely (via sniper scope or other means), its eye is occasionally moving. This may simply be an oversight.
Klensal's moon is the same asset as the one used to represent satellites on the skyboxes of Amaranthine, Ontarom, Eletania, Binthu, and Feros (original version of Mass Effect only).



