




Knossos

Milky Way / Artemis Tau







System View


Stellar Mass
N/A


Stellar Class
N/A


Luminosity
N/A


Planets
5


Moons
0


Asteroid Belts
2


Asteroids
2


Objects
0


Knossos is a system of four terrestrial planets and one gas giant. There is little of note here except the industries of Therum and attendant helium-3 collection infrastructure on Archanes. Pre-Council times, the system has been used by at least two spacefaring cultures. The zeioph had crypts on Armeni while the Protheans also had a presence on Therum.

Contents

1 Archanes
2 Armeni
3 Carbonaceous Asteroid
4 Metallic Asteroid
5 Phaistos
6 Therum
7 Zakros
8 Cut Content
9 Trivia


Archanes[]
Archanes is the fifth planet orbiting the star Knossos.

Main article: Archanes
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals:    Gas Deposit ×1
Armeni[]
Armeni is the fourth planet orbiting the star Knossos.

Main article: Armeni
Carbonaceous Asteroid[]
A dark, carbon-rich asteroid. Radius: 83 km. Located in the outer asteroid belt, between the orbits of Armeni and Archanes. 

Collection: UNC: Locate Signs of Battle: League of One Medallion ×1

“Scans of the asteroid field in the Knossos system revealed some strange readings. Upon closer inspection, Navigator Pressly discovered the remains of an abandoned salarian fighter. The only thing of interest on board was a League of One medallion.”


Metallic Asteroid[]
A metal-rich asteroid. Radius: 127 km. Located in the inner asteroid belt, between the orbits of Phaistos and Therum.

Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals: Heavy Metal ×1

“Scans of this large asteroid field have revealed several deposits of platinum.”


Phaistos[]
Phaistos is the first planet orbiting the star Knossos.

Main article: Phaistos
Therum[]
Therum is the second planet orbiting the star Knossos.

Main article: Therum
Mission: Find Liara T'Soni
Zakros[]
Zakros is the third planet orbiting the star Knossos.

Main article: Zakros
Cut Content[]





The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

Cut dialogues which would have been part of Caleston's plotline state that Knossos was the name of the Prothean ruins in which Liara T'Soni is found.[1]
Trivia[]
The system is probably named for the classical Minoan (and, later, Greek) city of Knossos. Fittingly, all the planets in the Knossos system (with the exception of Therum) are named for ancient Minoan cities and monuments.  Furthermore, among the greek city states the four systems in the Artemis Tau cluster are named after, Knossos is by far the oldest; predating the other three by several thousand years.  This is likely a reference to the fact that the ancient Prothean ruins at the dig site are located in this system.

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav20_sannulamnoss, Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav20 nonyatombiri (2)





