




Krogan Shaman Adept






Class
Adept


Race
Krogan


Rarity
Rare


Availability
Mass Effect 3: Retaliation


Abilities
Krogan ChargeKrogan HeadbuttToughness/MeleeDecreased Mobility


Krogan are large bipeds native to the planet Tuchanka, a world known for its harsh environment, scarce resources, and vicious predators. Until the invention of gunpowder, the leading cause of krogan fatalities was "eaten by predators." Though slow, krogan can take tremendous damage in combat, allowing them to inflict grievous harm with impunity.
Armored like a tank--and as slow as one--an angry krogan has more going for it than the species' infamous belligerence. It should come as no surprise that a krogan dishes out as much punishment as they're able to take on the battlefield.

Contents

1 Powers
2 Melee and movement
3 Player Notes

3.1 General Notes
3.2 Cerberus
3.3 Collectors
3.4 Geth
3.5 Reapers




Powers[]





Barrier: 1000 / Health: 1000


Class: Krogan Berserker


 Barrier




 Shockwave




 Warp




 Rage











Melee and movement[]





Regular Melee (Krogan Headbutt) – The Krogan Shaman headbutts an enemy, staggering it briefly.
Heavy Melee (Krogan Charge) – The Krogan Shaman Adept charges forward a short distance and strikes an enemy with held weapons.
Grab (Physical Punch) – The Krogan Shaman Adept drags an enemy over cover and then executes them with a gruesome physical punch.





Dodge – The Krogan Shaman Adept lacks a dodge maneuver.
The Krogan Shaman Adept can take cover, but cannot roll from cover to cover.

Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
The Krogan Shaman Adept has access to Shockwave and Warp, making him the only krogan truly able to take down enemies with powers alone. This alone makes the Krogan Shaman a powerful character, but his ability to carry heavier weapons, fight effectively in melee, and endure more damage than the other Adept classes makes him very well-rounded.
To fight armored enemies or clustered groups, it is best to combine Warp and Shockwave and their respective combo evolutions for very powerful Biotic Explosions. In most cases, this one-two punch is your "bread and butter" tactic, so low cooldown times are desirable, meaning that weight capacity upgrades and lighter weapon choices are priorities.
Not putting any points in Barrier is a good idea to help keep cooldown times down; while this does make you more fragile, being a krogan can help mitigate this concern, especially if you can build up Rage.
Use of tactics to reduce the likelihood that enemies will dodge your Warp projectiles are also recommended, such as by equipping weapons that can stagger enemies on hit to forestall their dodge moves.
Remember not to spec the Rank 4 Radius evolution on Shockwave, as that evolution is unfortunately bugged. See the Shockwave page for more information.
Cerberus[]
Shockwave is useful for exposing Guardians or dealing heavy damage around chokepoints or large squads of enemies.
Warp serves as your anti-armor/barrier power and can be detonated with Shockwave to devastating effect.
Be wary of Phantoms: as with all characters that cannot dodge, Krogan Shaman are more prone to being impaled.
Collectors[]
This is where the Krogan Shaman will shine. Since all enemies have barriers and/or armor or health, every single enemy is vulnerable to biotics in some form or another.
Shockwave will suppress the weaker enemies such as the Collector Troopers, and Abominations, while Warp will weaken armor and set up Biotic Explosions.
Combine the Shaman's powers with an Acolyte, or other anti-shield/barrier weapon, and you can easily send the Collectors packing.
Geth[]
Barrier is useful to help combat the geth's many staggering attacks.
The force effects of Shockwave only affect Geth Rocket Troopers, Geth Hunters and Geth Troopers.
Geth Bombers can bomb you into submission very quickly as Krogan aren't exactly nimble nor small: be wary.
Reapers[]
The Krogan Shaman's powers will do serious damage against this faction. Shockwave will suppress the Husks, Swarmers, Cannibals, and unshielded Marauders, while Warp will adequately deal with every other foe. With a good weapon combo you should have no trouble dealing with the Reapers, no matter what they throw at you.


Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer and Character Customization


Adepts

Asari • Asari Justicar • Awakened Collector • Batarian Slasher • Drell • Human • Krogan Shaman • N7 Fury • Project Phoenix • Volus


Engineers

Geth • Human • N7 Demolisher • Quarian • Quarian Male • Salarian • Talon Mercenary • Turian Saboteur • Volus • Vorcha Hunter


Infiltrators

Alliance Infiltration Unit • Asari Huntress • Drell Assassin • Geth Hunter • Human • N7 Shadow • Quarian • Quarian Male • Salarian • Turian Ghost


Sentinels

Asari Valkyrie • Batarian Enforcer • Human • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • N7 Paladin • Turian • Volus Mercenary • Vorcha


Soldiers

Batarian Enforcer • Battlefield 3 • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Trooper • Human • Krogan • N7 Destroyer • Quarian Marksman • Turian • Turian Havoc • Vorcha


Vanguards

Asari • Batarian Brawler • Cabal • Drell • Human • Krogan Battlemaster • N7 Slayer • Project Phoenix • Volus Protector




