









Krogan Bouncer




Race
Krogan


Type
Organic


Armament
Assault Rifle, Shotgun


Abilities
 Berserker Charge Krogan Regeneration


Health
Moderate


Shields
Very Low


Locations
Citadel


The Krogan Bouncer is the krogan that Fist hired to be the bouncer for his bar, Chora's Den. He usually isn't seen at the door, but rather inside the bar itself near the dancers.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




During the mission to expose Saren, Shepard and the squad launch an assault on Chora's Den in order to get to Fist and to retrieve the information to finally expose Saren's actions as a traitor to the Council. The Bouncer is ready to defend the bar with Fist's hired thugs and is killed in the attempt to stop Shepard.

Tactics[]
The Krogan Bouncer is the toughest enemy in the bar, possessing two bars of shielding and higher health than others. Like with all ME enemies, his shielding will regenerate. Being a krogan, his health regenerates and he will get back up after the first time you kill him. This revival can be prevented by using Chemical, Incendiary or High Explosive Rounds, as they will destroy his body. Killing him while he's in the air (possible with Lift, Throw or Singularity) will also do the trick.
The Bouncer is initially placed in one of the stripper platforms at the back, toting an assault rifle. He will take potshots with it as long as you're out of range. As you approach he will attempt to close the distance by charging and then bringing out the shotgun.
Using Throw to keep him away is a good idea. Alternatively, the player can stun him with Neural Shock or simply disable his weapons with Sabotage.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





