


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 


Krogan Mercenary






Race
Krogan


Rarity
Rare


Availability
Unlockable



Slow-moving tank with all the heavy weapons and armor a fighter could want.
Can the Krogan Mercenary kill it? Will it be glorious? Excellent. He'll buy the first round of ryncol when the battle is over.

Skills and stats[]





 Health: 700     Shields: 300


Powers

Flamethrower


Fortify


Flak Cannon


Passives

Munitions Training


Rage


Veteran Bonus


Melee

Headbutt


Bonus Stat

All Power Recharge Speeds


Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
As with several krogan characters, using the Mercenary entails killing enemies at close range for added Rage bonuses. Melee damage Mods are practically mandatory on all weapons that can have them.
On higher difficulties, Flak Cannon with stun can help reduce fire from nearby enemies, thereby buying enough time to kill them all before they kill him first.
The Mercenary's initial weight allocation is 30 units. Rage rank 2 and Munitions Training rank 3 raise that to 65 units total, or almost any combination of a heavy weapon and a moderately-weighted one.
Kett[]

Outlaw[]

Remnant[]
The Mercenary's skillset fares poorly against the numerous floating units since they tend to float beyond headbutt range or close-range weapon accuracy. He can, however, tank Nullifier attacks and get close enough to dispose of them quickly.
A mid- to long-range weapon is almost mandatory in addition to a short-range weapon when facing against Remnant since most of them deal damage from afar.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Multiplayer and APEX HQ







Common

Human Adept • Human Engineer • Human Infiltrator • Human Sentinel • Human Soldier • Human Vanguard


Uncommon

Asari Adept • Asari Sentinel • Krogan Engineer • Krogan Vanguard • Salarian Infiltrator • Turian Soldier


Rare

Angara Insurgent • Asari Huntress • Batarian Scrapper • Human Artificer • Human Commando • Human Guardian • Human Juggernaut • Krogan Mercenary • Salarian Architect • Turian Agent • Turian Havoc Trooper


Ultra Rare

Angara Avenger • Angara Exemplar • Asari Duelist • Batarian Vanguard • Human Kineticist • Krogan Gladiator • Salarian Operator






