






This article is about the enemy unit. For information about the species, see krogan.








Krogan




Race
Krogan


Type
Organic


Armament
Assault Rifles, Shotguns, Sniper Rifles, Pistols


Abilities
 Berserker Charge Krogan Regeneration Immunity Assassination


Health
Moderate


Shields
High


Locations
Noveria, Therum, Feros, Multiple uncharted worlds


Krogan are common soldiers that are seen around the galaxy. They are armed with a variety of weapons and are capable of charging and doing massive damage, both with their weapons, and with their powerful melee attacks. Krogan are used as shock troops by many Mercenary bands and organizations for various tasks across the galaxy.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




In addition to being used by pirate and mercenary groups, Saren, who had found a cure for the genophage, began breeding an army of krogan to supplement his geth forces. Krogan are seen on many worlds being used by both mercenary and Saren's forces. When dealing with that latter, where krogan will be found, geth will usually be in the same area as well, or at least nearby.

Tactics[]
These enemies wield one of two weapon pairs, which also dictate their attack profiles: assault rifle/shotgun, or sniper rifle/pistol. The former configuration is far more common than the latter. Assault krogan are more likely to attempt closing in while sniper krogan are more likely to stay far for their Assassination attacks.
If they aren't killed while in the air, or by ammunition/grenades that can destroy targets upon death (like cold, incendiary, toxic, and high explosive), all krogan enemies will regenerate once before going down for good, so make sure to put them down for good.
Krogan are dangerous on all difficulties but especially on Insanity where they all possess Immunity and their melee attacks can one-shot the player or allies without a very high level of physical damage resistance. Their melee attacks also possess considerable force and are able to knock down the player and most squadmates not possessing a certain level of force resistance.
The best strategy against krogan at all difficulties is to keep them constantly off their feet with biotic abilities, Neural Shock, or weapons with a high amount of force such as a sniper rifle modded with High Explosive Rounds to stop them from charging, shooting, or activating Immunity while plugging away with at least one rapid-fire weapon with toxic damage to deny their regeneration.  Warp also denies their regeneration and makes it much easier to hurt them even if they have Immunity active.
When fighting krogan in open areas, using biotics to levitate them and then eject them from the map (e.g. with Throw or high force weapons) for instant kills is a very painless (and fun) way to deal with them.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





