


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
Kurinth's Valley is a tranquil highland region in Kadara's badlands. It is bounded to the south by Sulfur Springs, and to the east/southeast by Haarfel.
The valley is on a much higher elevation than the surrounding area. The route there can be from Charybdis Point on the southwest or Haarfel's other Forward Station to the east/southeast, as the region itself does not have any forward station sites. An angaran daar sits below a pair of gargantuan peaks, which act as a gateway to the northernmost lands explorable from Kadara Port. 
Beyond this gateway is a circular area roughly stratified into high and low regions, with the lower region accessible through a clockwise downward slope. Sheer cliffs prevent further exploration beyond the region. There are three lakes in the area: one on the upper region, one on the lower region, and one on the slope.
Kurinth's Valley is largely peaceful, bereft of hostile wildlife or warring outlaw factions.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




The gateway daar is devoid of living angara as they have been slowly poisoned by the planet's toxic water. Closer inspection reveals their filters have been sabotaged by intruders from Charybdis Point.
An exile structure by the lower lake is a growhouse for a type of plant that allegedly has "medicinal properties". People from all over Kadara apparently buy these in "leaves". The site's owners are worried because one of their UV lights is broken, so they broadcast an emergency S.O.S. to anyone who can render assistance.
Should Ditaeon be established, an Architect appears over the upper lake, oblivious to a cult that has arisen to worship it and hostile to anything within its range. The Remnant construct can be defeated by Pathfinder Ryder, which sends it out of the region and into orbit.

Missions[]



Allies and Relationships
Ryder Family Secrets


Heleus Assignments
Contagion
Emergency S.O.S.
Forgotten History
Old Skinner
Something in the Water


Additional Tasks
Task: Herbal Entrepreneurs
Task: Hitting Rocks for Science
Task: Remnant Data Cores

Datapads[]
On the growhouse by the lower lake:




Thoughts
Dear diary…it's happening… the plant's kicking in…get ready to have your mind blown…

What if my arm got hungry? What if it wanted a snack and ate my foot? Would they switch places? There's also the problem of purple. What's its deal? It can't decide if it's blue? Just make up its mind already! 

And another thing. Space/time isn't at all what we think. We're each individual pieces of energy, drawn from a much larger pool, given physical form in an artificial time-stream. Time doesn't actually exist in the classic Newtonian sense. Everything happens at once, but our minds couldn't handle that, so we process it one moment after the next. But I see it all now. It's all happening. The alpha and the omega united. 


And shit, I think my toe just ate my hand.





Safe Refuge?
To anyone who likes drinking water: 


Word is there's some people out here who found a clean underground well. It's up in the hills, hard to find, but Merdak says the mean guy said the other guy with the scars saw one of these people trading for supplies.





Buyers
- The guy living in the cave: 4 leaves
- That nasty asari chick with the scar: 3 leaves
- "Bubba Quad" krogan: 8 leaves
- Sloane's bodyguard: 2 leaves
- Get some munchies…
- Turian with the nasty burns near the fire lake

- Crazy mental salarian who talks too fast: 4 leaves? 6 leaves? Don't know. Can't understand him.


Trivia[]
The region appears to be named after an asari goddess of war and hunting, who also has a planet in the Milky Way as a namesake.



