







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.











Kurin
Asari Lieutenant

Race
Asari


Gender
Feminine


Voice Actor
Laura Bailey[1]


Appearances
Mass Effect 3


Lieutenant Kurin is an asari soldier stationed on Thessia during the Reapers' assault on the planet in 2186. A descendant of a long lineage of skilled warriors, Kurin and her troops are tasked with holding a position near the ancient temple dedicated to the goddess Athame.
Amidst the heavy fighting with Reaper ground forces, Commander Shepard arrives on the site, providing much-needed fire support for Kurin and her soldiers when their barrier emplacement is damaged. Once the onslaught of Husks and Brutes is stemmed, Kurin orders her subordinates to reinforce the weakened barrier while she speaks with Shepard. With losses mounting, Kurin was on the verge of ordering a retreat and pulling her troops out prior to Shepard's arrival, and with no information on Shepard's mission but the Commander's name, she isn't inclined to change her assessment. However, Shepard is able to convince Lieutenant Kurin of the importance of their mission, either by divulging key details about the mission or sharing just enough.
Shepard needs to go to the temple. Kurin reports losing contact with the scientists there, and is more reluctant to provide support if the Spectre doesn't tell her what's important there. If present, Javik employs his people's sensory ability to read the lieutenant's fear and exhaustion, but also her warrior lineage, spurring her to keep fighting. If not, Liara warns her they need to reach the temple or else Thessia falls. Shepard can divulge the Crucible's existence to her to sweeten the deal, or otherwise, Javik's mere existence or Shepard's prowess killing Reapers is enough to gain her trust.
Ultimately, Kurin steels herself for a return to the fight. She commands her soldiers to hold their positions, radios orders ahead to support Shepard, and vows to let the galaxy know that the war was won on Thessia.
Shepard's team eventually reaches the Temple of Athame, aided along their embattled path by Kurin's troops, though they fail to recover the artifact they sought due to the intervention of Cerberus and the pro-human group's operative, Kai Leng. With the fight against the Reapers growing worse for the asari, Kurin attempts to send out a call for information on Shepard's progress. However, communication difficulties arise due to the Reapers' presence, leaving Shepard unable to respond to the lieutenant's pleas. Moments later, Kurin's transmission is brought to a sudden end amidst the arrival of several more descending Reapers.

References[]

↑ https://www.laurabaileyvo.com/video-games





