


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 





“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Prodromos is the first officially successful outpost established by the Andromeda Initiative in the Heleus Cluster. It is only made possible through the efforts of Pathfinder Ryder, who managed to reset a Remnant terraforming vault on Eos that cleared significant amounts of ambient radiation.
Contents

1 Background
2 Layout
3 Residents
4 Missions
5 Terminals
6 Trivia


Background[]
Two prior attempts were made by the Initiative to settle Eos, Site 1: Promise and Site 2: Resilience. Both failed due to the hostile environment and marauding aliens known as the kett. The third time around, Ryder selects a colonization site in Fairwinds Basin as the high cliff walls surrounding the area partially protected it from the deadly radiation that had existed prior to the activation of the Remnant vault. 
Director of Colonial Affairs Foster Addison personally oversees the establishment of the outpost, flying in with appointed mayor August Bradley when the go signal is given. Because the Initiative's resources are at a crisis point, Ryder gets to decide if Prodromos serves a scientific or a military role.
The settlement's name was chosen via popular vote. "Prodromos" means "Forerunner" in Greek. As Ryder blazes trails across the cluster, Prodromos begins trading with newly-discovered factions or other outposts established in the Pathfinder's wake.

Layout[]
Prodromos surrounds a lake and consists of six single-floor buildings, two double-floor buildings and four shuttle landing pads. Many of the buildings have water-silos on the side. There is a Research Center building on the northwestern side of the lake, a shop on the eastern side and a Forward Station on the north-eastern side. Most buildings do not have an explained use, but all contain some form of furniture suggesting what takes part in them.
Prodromos also contains a dedicated landing space for the Tempest at the north of the lake.

Residents[]
August Bradley
Cain Fawkes
Darket Tiervian
Danny Messier
Dinesh Patel
Dr. Ramirez
Grace Lito - After completing the mission Something Personnel.
Grendmar - If Ryder chooses to save the krogan during Hunting the Archon.
Hainly Abrams
Hydaria
Jacob Mittney
Jun-Seo Park
Kim Connor
Lasske Vel - If Ryder chooses to save the salarians during Hunting the Archon.
Majordomo Bell-Scott
Merchant
Stanton Yale
Missions[]



Priority Ops
A Better Beginning


Allies and Relationships
Cora Harper: Asari Ark
Gil Brodie: The Friend
Jaal Ama Darav: Friend or Foe?
Liam Kosta: Community
Ryder Family Secrets




Heleus Assignments
A Job for Danny Messier
Doesn't Add Up
Life on the Frontier
Making An Impression
Missing Arks
Shock Treatment


Additional Tasks
Task: Boosting the Signal
Task: Data Trail
Task: Drone Recovery
Task: Pathfinder Armor Crafting
Task: Supply Loss and Recovery
Task: The Ghost of Promise
Task: Waking up to the Future

Terminals[]
On a terminal in one of the northern structures:




Congrats.
Hey, Connor

Heard about the new position. Prodromos just gained one hell of a businesswoman--they're lucky to have you.  If we ever find ourselves on the Nexus at the same time, I'm buying you a drink to celebrate.

-Vetra


And Ryder--I know you're going to get nosy and read this. Hi.



On the terminal on the bridge across the lake:




Quarantine: Best Practices
Please remember that everything shipped to the landing pad—especially from off-world rather than sealed Nexus supplies—MUST go through quarantine procedures via confined observation, spot testing, bacteriological scans, or radioactive sterilization.

We are a new presence on Eos, and everything added to the ecosystem will have an effect down the line. Our job is to make sure it's a beneficial one, and strong quarantine practices will really help us out.

Hainly Abrams


Addendum: If anyone tries to tell me or Hainly that your shipment's a special case and you don't need to bother, you'll be running quarantine twice. — Bradley







Radiation Alerts for Shuttle Pilots
That vault doohickey might be clearing the atmosphere, but we've still got pockets of high radiation and bad weather across the continent.

Telepresence update: Zones 10-12 are still smoking hot but Zone 8 is showing a drop. Watch your shuttle's radiation shield absorption. They can take up to 190 mSV/hr safely. Anything more and you need to head back for a refit.

And remember that if you're carrying power cells or radiological equipment, those can throw your readings off. Make sure you're as safe as you think.


Pilot MacReady


If Prodromos is a military outpost:




Today's Flight Schedule
0300-0400: Night flying training session #4

0700-0800: Morning patrol (NE)

1200-1230: Shuttle cleaning and refit

1400-1500: Dropship assault drills—jump jet inspection beforehand


1500-1600: Afternoon patrol (SSW)


If Prodromos is a scientific outpost:




Today's Flight Schedule
0600-0800: Weather monitoring sweep

1200-1300: Geographical survey flight - SIGN UP EARLY OR YOU'LL LOSE YOUR EQUIPMENT SLOTS!

1500-1700: Retrieving Team Sigma plus plant specimens


2000-2200: High-altitude atmospheric obs with timeslot for astronomical survey



On a terminal near Cain Fawkes:




Scratch Pad - Login: Chief Engineer Cain Fawkes
This file is filled with sketches, annotations, and exploded schematic views. Many are focused on a combined road-monorail network for Eos, showing several different but brilliant designs.

Always good to go back to the old standby when I need to think:

Underneath are several doodles showing elegant redesigns of the Nexus tram system map.

Pasted to one side are a number of downloaded statistics on predicted population growth over the next century.

Got a baseline! Bradley's always good for the numbers.

Adjoining the statistics is a blocked-out simplistic drawing of Prodromos, dotted lines showing expansion, with detailed sketches of water and sewage lines underground, wireless power routers, and the flow of foot traffic.

Sloppy, but it's a start.

On the other side is a sketch of a Pathfinder helmet with downloaded notes on material testing and safety regulations.


Design fundamentals look sound. No need to worry.







Hey from the Nexus!
Fawkes--

How is it there? I heard Bradley has things up and running smoothly. I knew you guys could do it. Tell me all about Eos! It's boring here, so I have to live vicariously through you.

As for the advice you asked for, just be yourself. I know how you get when you're nervous. This special lady will like you a lot more if you just relax. You got this, buddy. Good luck!


-Ellis



On a terminal near Majordomo Bell-Scott:




Secure Comm (Nexus-Prodromos) - Re: Messages
To: Director Tann
From: A. Bradley

Tann--appreciate the personal interest, but my people are getting twitchy with all the messages you're sending them. I'd like their minds on the job, not being under a microscope. Addison's the one I call.

I get it. Site 1 and 2 are still raw for us, too. But Prodromos isn't the same. No better way to prove that than to let us do our jobs. Give them space, and I'll give you all the footage you need to make it play well back on the Nexus. Agreed?


Bradley







Post-Deployment Block Party
To: All Prodromos Personnel
From: A. Bradley

Everyone,

Initial setup went by the books and we're operational in record time. Be proud. I am.

Now that the first deployment wave is in, I'm giving the all-clear to break into the good stuff. We've got a new colony to toast, and some lost friends to say goodbye to. Lights go down and drinks raise up at 2000.


Bradley



On a terminal near Hainly Abrams:




Dictation Log: Scientific Director Hainly Abrams
How? What technology can do this so quickly? Neutralizing the radiation in the atmosphere without dramatic storm effects--shit, the opposite! The weather's gone calm as a summer's day. That's unprecedented control over atmospheric pressure, gas mixture, temperature--what else? And where's the interaction?

[Pause break]

Miss the dogs. Walking them in the shuttleport park always helped me think through these problems. Forget side effects, too. I should get a dog. Are there dogs?

[Pause break]

We got damn lucky with the conditions here. This is comparable to sea-level Earth. Eos is drier, but within limits. Moisture is binding into the desert plants and soil. More now, since the vault. Points to a species with the same air mix-temperature-gravitational comfort levels as us? Or is there another reason? Can't predict intent from results.

[Pause break]


Maybe Ryder's the one to figure out why. The how? That's my department now. Lucky old Hainly, you wanted bigger things. You've sure got them now.


If Prodromos is a military outpost:




Re: Working together
To: Tiran Kandros
From: Hainly Abrams

I appreciate you reaching out despite our differences. I still have concerns about conducting military research at our first civilian outpost, though. The fact that you'd—potentially—have classified prototype weaponry in the same location as families trying to raise crops doesn't seem to fit our mission.

I've prepared a proposal for additional safety measures in the labs and storage facilities. I'd also like my own staff to oversee any experiments done here. For anything else, I'm sure you and Bradley can negotiate. Even if I don't entirely trust this direction, I trust him, and you.

Hainly Abrams




If Prodromos is a scientific outpost:




Research Proposal Submissions Review
Materials analysis of recovered kett firearms
> [Approved. Important.]

Waterborne bacteria study
> [Approved. If you don't flush your work away.]

Color reactions and acuity in insectoid wildlife
> [What? No. Not approved. Unless you're going to make them stop at a red light.]

Comparison of quantum-initialized string effects to relativistic waveforms
> [This is gibberish. I'm not giving grants for the best word salad.]

Element zero voltage resistance testing

> [Finally, some real science. Approved.]



On a terminal near Dr. Ramirez:




RE: Victor Carsen
Mr. Josephs,

I find it troubling that you think I could be swayed from my duty by an offer of credits. I understand Victor Carsen is a friend of yours, but that's hardly an adequate reason to release him from cryostasis and send him to Prodromos. Beyond that, from what I hear, you two are a disaster waiting to happen. I know all about the "prank" you and Mr. Carsen pulled on Everett before the journey to Heleus.

Victor Carsen will be released from stasis when I see fit, and assigned to an outpost that best suits his skill set. And if I hear you've gone over my head and spoken to Addison about this, you'll have me to answer to.


-Administrator Brecka







Case Notes - #024 - Dr. Ramirez
Patient ID: 024
Symptoms/condition: Acute insomnia, claustrophobia

Details:
On examination, no organic underlying causes. Apparently suffered a mechanical failure when coming out of stasis that locked her in the pod. Clearly a psychosomatic case, but symptoms are acute. Prescribed tetravoxine and VR post-stasis therapy. Next appointment in two weeks.

Personal notes:
I'm seeing several cases of post-stasis anxiety and other related conditions. The techies solved a lot of the physical effects of long-term stasis, but we're clearly seeing the psychological effects run a lot deeper. People just aren't designed to be turned off for too long. Should talk with Hainly about a long-term research initiative. We're "first" for a lot of things.









Case Notes - #076 - Dr. Ramirez
Patient ID: 076
Symptoms/condition: Multiple leg fractures

Details:
Patient lost his grip and fell during maintenance work on the roof. Jump-jets failed to fire. Compound fractures to the right leg, severe sprains to left ankle. Patient showed an allergic reaction to anesthetic, so I borrowed August and a couple engineers to hold 076 down while I set the legs. Application of foam cast and appropriate analgesia followed.

Personal notes:

Noisy day, but hopefully an object lesson to the rest of the outpost about jump jet maintenance. Patient is healing nicely. Should be falling off roofs again in a week.


Trivia[]
A female Initiative member can be found staggering around, apparently inebriated, close to the Tempest landing area, directly south of where Ryder and squadmates spawn upon exiting the ship. August Bradley frequently reminds the Pathfinder that people stay out of each others' grief.



