







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.











Legion Assassin




Faction
Cerberus


Type
Synthetic


Armament
M-13 Raptor


Abilities
 Assassination


Health
Moderate


Shields
Moderate


Locations
Cronos Station


The Legion Assassin is a Cerberus-controlled geth platform guarding the remains of the Human-Reaper in Cronos Station. It only appears if Commander Shepard sold to Cerberus the geth unit recovered from the Derelict Reaper in 2185.
Unlike its counterpart, it never speaks, only vocalizing with electronic geth chirps. It is encountered in the catwalks surrounding the Human-Reaper remains, descending from a ladder after two Phantoms precede it.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Legion Assassin is armed with a M-13 Raptor sniper rifle. It has no offensive capability at melee range, and will attempt to run away to line up a shot at range if cornered.

Defensive
Legion Assassin has moderate health and shields.

Tactics[]
Legion Assassin is essentially a named Nemesis, except synthetic rather than organic. Most tactics for beating the common sniper unit also applies to this platform.
Because the location where it appears is essentially a narrow corridor, it has little room to maneuver to line up a shot. Rushing Legion Assassin will render its best attack unusable.
It would be wise to Biotic Charge Legion Assassin as a Vanguard. This should stun it, rendering it vulnerable to a heavy melee.


Mass Effect 3 Enemies


CAT6

Brooks • CAT6 Heavy • CAT6 Sniper • CAT6 Specialist • Clone • Disruption Drone


Cerberus

Adjutant • Assault Trooper • Atlas • Centurion • Combat Engineer • Dragoon • Dr. Eva • Guardian • Kai Leng • Legion Assassin • Nemesis • Phantom • Rampart Mech • Turret


Collectors

Abomination (Possessed) • Collector Captain (Possessed) • Collector Trooper (Possessed) • Collector Web • Praetorian (Possessed) • Scion (Possessed) • Seeker Swarm (Plague)


Geth

Combat Drone • Geth Bomber • Geth Hunter • Geth Prime • Geth Pyro • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Trooper • Geth Turret


Reapers

Banshee • Brute • Cannibal • Harvester • Husk • Marauder • Ravager • Swarmer




