




Lesuss

Region
Milky Way / Nimbus Cluster / Mesana





Planet View


Orbital Distance
0.8 AU


Orbital Period
0.8 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.8


Radius
6,126 km


Day Length
23.5 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.75 atm


Surface Temp
38 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.23 g


Mass
1.126 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Nimbus Cluster / Mesana System /  First planet


Colony

Species
Asari


Capital
Marya


Colony Founded
473 BCE


Population
Unknown



Prerequisite: Priority: The Citadel II (Mass Effect 3)

Description[]
Lesuss is an unpopular garden world, with characteristics just outside of the comfort zone of its asari population. Its gravity is a little too high, its diseases a little too virulent, and the soil inhospitable for growing food. Further information is difficult to come by--the asari government is uncharacteristically silent about Lesuss. Normally, a garden world settled so long ago would be highly populated, but little light pollution can be seen on Lesuss's night side.

Codex Entry[]





Audio: Lesusshttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Codex_ME3_-_Lesuss.ogg

An unremarkable world located far from regularly traveled trade routes, Lesuss is inhabited only by a small asari colony. The main feature is a monastery that houses a large population of asari with active or latent Ardat-Yakshi genes, a disorder that causes the death of anyone who mates with the afflicted asari. Although some of the colonists exiled themselves voluntarily, many were sent to Lesuss by their families to protect society from their deadly potential.
The monastery emphasizes individual sacrifice for the good of the community. Latent Ardat-Yakshi, as well as active sufferers who show that they can control their condition, may be offered a chance to reintegrate into asari society after spending sufficient time on Lesuss. Active Ardat-Yakshi whose psychological profiles show capacity for neither empathy nor reeducation are confined to the monastery for life.


Missions[]
Mission: Kallini: Ardat-Yakshi Monastery
Mission: Citadel: Asari Widow



