


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 





“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.





Location: Andromeda / Heleus Cluster / Valay

Description[]
DATA:

Ark name: Leusinia
Stasis pod count: Projected 20,000, currently detecting 12,000
Status: Multiple hull breaches, power levels sub-operational
ANALYSIS:
Named after a mythical asari kingdom of wealth and learning, Ark Leusinia is built along similar specifications to Ark Hyperion. Sensors currently show heavy damage to many decks, minimal power, and few life signs.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
See also: Codex (Mass Effect: Andromeda)/Ships And Vehicles#Ark Leusinia
After reaching Andromeda and encountering the kett, Ark Leusinia came under attack by a group of specialized kett hunters known as the Decimation. Stolen kett navigational data allowed the ark to flee through the Scourge while evacuating as many civilians as possible, but constant harrying eventually forced the ark to go into hiding until rescue arrived.
If Pathfinder Ryder follows the trail leading to Leusinia's whereabouts, it is discovered to be heavily damaged from boarding parties of Decimators and without sufficient power to use the main drive. It turns out that a powerful mass effect field generator holding a section of the hull in place is hooked up to Leusinia's power systems, and hasn't been turned off ever since some asari evacuated the ship attempting to get away from the invaders. After a prolonged battle with the kett, the necessary energy is diverted to the drive. 
Before the Leusinia can escape, it is intercepted by a Decimator warship, which fires several missiles on a weakened section of the ark. The ship is saved thanks to the biotic powers of asari Pathfinder Sarissa Theris and Cora Harper. 
After being escorted to safety, Ark Leusinia is now docked at the Nexus to offload the remaining colonists from stasis and undergo extensive repairs.




