






This article is about an ancient artifact mentioned in Mass Effect. For the mythical entity featured in Mass Effect 3: Leviathan, see Leviathan.

The Leviathan of Dis is the name given to a gigantic corpse that disappeared from a crater on Jartar in 2163. It is believed to be the remains of a genetically engineered starship and its age was originally placed at nearly a billion years old. 

Contents

1 Discovery
2 Mass Effect 3

2.1 Leviathan


3 Trivia
4 See Also


Discovery[]
There was little time to study and uncover the true nature of this mysterious find. Not long after its discovery by a batarian survey team, a batarian dreadnought visited the Dis system, after which the Leviathan mysteriously disappeared. The batarians have since strenuously denied that the Leviathan existed at all. They become even more vocal when shown documentation of the Leviathan by salarian researchers before its disappearance.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3[]
Provided he survived the batarian terrorist attack on Terra Nova in 2183, Balak will tell Commander Shepard that the Leviathan of Dis was actually a Reaper corpse that the Batarian Hegemony had transported to Khar'shan. After the failure of the attack on Terra Nova, the Hegemony accelerated research on the Leviathan, which then indoctrinated numerous batarian scientists and officials. The indoctrinated officials then sabotaged Hegemony defenses during the Reaper invasion in 2186, allowing the Reapers to easily conquer batarian territories and crush their scattered navy.

Leviathan[]
After meeting with Dr. Garret Bryson on the Citadel, Shepard will learn from a recorded conversation between Bryson and Admiral Hackett that Task Force Aurora had been investigating the Leviathan of Dis. Bryson's real interest in the Reaper corpse is the entity that killed it, which he identifies as the true Leviathan.

Trivia[]
A leviathan generally refers to an aquatic being of gargantuan proportions.
See Also[]
The Conspiracy Accountability League's report about the Leviathan of Dis.



