


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
On occasion when Liam is in the squad, he will engage in conversations unique to him.

Unique Dialogue[]
Throughout Ryder's travels, there are specific points where Liam will voice his opinions. 

On A Better Beginning:
Liam wants a scientific outpost if his opinion is asked, reasoning that the colonists need to understand Eos.
On Voeld:
If Jaal Ama Darav isn't with the squad, he loiters in the Angaran Resistance Base and advises Ryder when talked to that they need his presence to reassure his fellow angara. Liam concurs and urges the Pathfinder to listen.
Spontaneous[]
Sometimes Liam will say something spontaneously, without being prompted.

On A Better Beginning:
While walking around in the first chamber after dropping down from the Remnant vault entrance topside, Liam reports seeing the rock Peebee kicked in earlier, "safe and sound."
Liam declares an Assembler maintenance area "cozy."
On Eos:
While wandering around Site 1: Promise, Liam opines a monument or memorial here should be considered when there's time.
While wandering around a military Prodromos outpost, Liam mentions talking to some of the soldiers and remarks they're a straight-faced bunch. If it's a scientific outpost instead, Liam is eager to see what its scientists come up with.
On Havarl:
Shortly after landing for the first time, Liam is easily impressed by the world's lush environs.
Liam notes his school-age self would have been excited on seeing giant glow-in-the-dark mushrooms.
While walking around Liam is annoyed all the surrounding greenery is triggering something in him, possibly his allergies. If the other squadmate inquires, he replies maybe it's his spidey sense since he doesn't really know what exactly.
Liam is awed seeing the Chasm of the Builders for the first time, and decides it's things like it that make everything worthwhile.
On Voeld:
After landing on the world for the first time, a short distance from the Tempest Liam affirms Jaal's assessment of poor visibility due to all the snow.
While wandering around the Angaran Resistance Base, Liam supposes their operation is bigger than he thought.
Seeing the Resistance's command center for the first time, Liam thinks it's an honor they get to witness such an operation.
On approach to Hjara Station and noticing its enormous ice sample, Liam is reminded of a "snooty" bar in London   that only served drinks over off-world ice.
Nomad Banter[]
While driving across a landscape in the Nomad, Liam may initiate or reply to conversations around certain topics. 

While talking with Peebee:
Liam admits he takes up positions close to Ryder to protect them. They're the Pathfinder, and Liam doesn't do the same thing with other people.
When Peebee asks if he has a problem with her, Liam rhetorically questions if she's with the Initiative, not in the physically present sense. His answer to the asari depends on Peebee's answer regarding the former.
Liam confirms flirting with him won't go anywhere.
When Peebee rants at him he tells her to get to the point and asks her if the things she did for the team were truly altruistic or just transactional. She doesn't see any distinction between the last two, proving Liam's point.
Liam concedes he doesn't get to decide the "right" reasons for being in Andromeda, but he'll still call Peebee out if she risks the team. He admits she's a valuable part of the team, agreeing with her that it would be boring if everyone simply liked each other.
Liam attributes his judgmental attitude to his crisis response training, claiming that users are the most dangerous things after a disaster. Bears are a close second.
When she muses it would be funny if they both ended up together, Liam clarifies if it's "funny peculiar" or "funny ha-ha".
Liam observes Peebee is highly accurate in combat.
Liam wants to know if she's pulling her punches against Remnant enemies.
He inquires if she's staying sharp.
Not appreciating her wit, he reminds her to tighten up as there's a lot depending on them.
When he feels the team has found its rhythm, he recalls his encounter with a scarred turian and his mercenaries. Peebee thinks it's from some vid, so he starts arguing it actually happened before dropping the subject.
Liam requests reassignment from Ryder when Peebee comes on to him.
He mentions being glad to be off the Nexus.
Peebee really prefers fighting Remnant over kett. Liam points out both shoot to kill.
Peebee wants some Remnant parts so he asks how they should procure them. He agrees with shooting and looting the robots.
When Peebee disparages soccer compared to Kailat ring-ball, Liam proves to her humans are biologically incapable of competing in Kailat. Anyone can play soccer, and he was utterly impressed seeing a hanar keep goal.
Liam asks if she was close to anyone exiled from the Nexus.
Liam has hangups about meddling with Remnant tech without knowing what they do. He wants details when Peebee simply tells him they make things better.
He deems Peebee unlike other asari he's met. When she asks if he's a typical human, he supposes he is.
When Peebee notes how well-stocked they are compared to the earlier efforts to tame the cluster, Liam thinks the people in charge had a low opinion of the colonists' survival.
Liam prefers learning about the rules in a system so he knows which ones are safe to break.
Liam complains about every planet they land on being hostile and asserts it shouldn't be their new normal. He doesn't want to end up with a haunted and inured look that he saw on people during his days in crisis response.
Following the completion of A Trail of Hope II, Liam's still feeling good with first contact with the angara, and incredulously reacts to Peebee deeming them boring.
Following the completion of Liam Kosta: All In, Liam has to listen to Peebee call out his screwup. He decides "right Peebee" is not more likeable than "wrong Peebee".
Following the completion of Meridian: The Way Home, Liam wonders why Peebee isn't on Meridian considering it's full of Remnant.
While talking with Jaal:
Liam sent him pictures of Earth and claims they don't do the planet justice: cities everywhere, and blue skies next to bluer oceans. Jaal asks how to distinguish the latter, and Liam replies people get wet in one.
Liam asks Jaal how the angara kept morale up despite kett everywhere. He's not reassured with the response.
Liam inquires about Jaal's age. He claims age is only a big deal in extreme ranges and if they mix, pointing out Peebee acts like a 12-year-old while she's "probably 400".
Liam wants to trade his HUSTL patch with Jaal's Resistance patch, reasoning he earned his so he can share it.
Liam claims he left law enforcement to make things better for people, but there were too many obstacles in his way.
Liam's family was secular and simply observed holidays as an excuse to be together.
Liam hums to himself and tells Jaal humans sometimes do it to express uncertainty, while hoping no one would notice.
When Jaal notices Liam's scared, and shares the angara have noticed the same reaction on all Initiative species, Liam supposes it's because they may have overcommitted to the notion that everything will be great in Andromeda.
Liam proudly declares being genetically conditioned to call Earth beautiful. Jaal thinks humans are a literal species, and Liam dares him to find one species whose name for themselves doesn't mean "the people".
He asks Jaal about his favorite planet, and guesses he likes Havarl because of family.
He's impressed with Jaal's training and considers it almost turian. He recalls a skirmish he had with a scarred mercenary turian, but stops himself, realizing he'd have to bring Jaal up to speed with more backstory in order to impress how amazing it was. He promises to deliver some other day.
He wants to see the rest of Aya someday but is dissuaded by Jaal. Liam supposes it couldn't be worse than the other places they're living in, and Jaal declares he'd rather have ice and sand "through his crack" than politicians. Liam asks if that's a real figure of speech or a failed attempt at human slang.
When Jaal becomes irritated at being asked on cultural things, Liam reasons he's conveniently nearby to be asked on such matters. Jaal rants further, causing Liam to realize someone else "pissed on his cereal."
When Jaal shares the angara haven't been developing ground vehicles lately, Liam asks if it's because they're losing vehicles to the kett.
Liam credits veterans teaching him how to properly assess tactical risks and thanks Jaal for recognizing his skill.
Liam recalls his training felt longer than the two years he spent in it, but it still didn't cover his present circumstances in this new galaxy. When Jaal points out it's naive to assume Andromeda will simply welcome him, Liam wonders how often does angaran honesty get him punched.
When Jaal wonders about the perspectives of the Initiative's longer-lived races, Liam tries to tell him the asari tend to look down on others on account of their centuries-spanning experience.
While talking with Drack:
Liam badgers the old krogan for weird stories, musing he must have seen a lot and not just in Heleus. He takes offense when Drack brushes him off.
Liam disputes being labeled inexperienced and calls Drack's thousand-year indifference "out of touch".
Liam complains about some backbreaking stress.
While talking with Vetra:
Liam and Vetra get into an argument regarding their last combat skirmish. He insists he was "flanking" even though he drained his shields in the process; he notes shields are there to take damage. Vetra calls it irresponsible, causing Liam to retort he's not taking any lessons in responsibility from her.
Vetra realizes Liam is taking a dig at her decision to bring Sidera Nyx to Andromeda, causing him to sarcastically dub her "Sherlock" and award her a "gold star". He takes umbrage at the apparent lack of choice in the matter, as Sid is still just a kid.
After Vetra Nyx: Means and Ends, Liam wonders if Vetra's begun working with Sid, additionally indicating that he saw the whole thing go down if he was present there. He claims it could have been worse.
When Vetra compliments his fighting moves, Liam tells her he learned those from a vid called "Edifice Wrecks." He appreciates Vetra's preference of the more hardcore batarian version of the vid.
Liam tacitly warns Vetra that Nexus security is watching one of her supply contacts and will crack down on any smuggling at the appointed drop date.
Liam inquires if she has family affected by the First Contact War. She refers to it by the turian equivalent, which he takes to mean "probably a yes".
Vetra's claws poked Liam during their last deployment together, so he admonishes her to watch it.
When Vetra advises him to go easy on his gear, Liam retorts they won't live long enough to wear it out if he doesn't push it to its limits.
Liam doesn't recognize the branding on Vetra's kit, so he's impressed when she tells him they're modified.
On Eos:
Liam jokingly stakes a claim on a big rock for his penthouse, confident it'll be on an uptown part of the colony. Ryder deems it won't be long before they build cities.
Liam thinks the planet seems less harsh than when they first arrived. He supposes he's getting used to it. Ryder assures him nothing on Eos can stop the Initiative from making it better.
In response to Ryder hoping Prodromos sets a high bar for colonization, Liam is eager to see how the Initiative improves the planet.
Around Site 1: Promise, Liam muses they should erect a memorial there when there's time. Ryder concurs, deeming it a hard lesson that shouldn't be forgotten.
Around the rock formations near the Four Giants, Liam attempts some wordplay for the moment: "Hoodoo? Who don't?" Ryder then declares there's nothing tougher in the long run than water and weather.
Around the Presson Dunes, the "lone and level sands" makes Liam recall the poem Ozymandias. Ryder assures him they'll clear the kett off Eos for good.
Around the Sawtooth Plateau, Ryder wonders what all the Remnant bits of tech lying around used to be. Liam supposes they're a reason why the vault was having trouble connecting.
Ryder assures the third squadmate one can get used to living on Eos if they try. Liam shares he heard someone request deployment to the world, which made him smile.
When Ryder replies to the third squadmate they're outfitted as best as can be, Liam declares he likes busting dunes and getting all six wheels of the vehicle off the ground.
Ryder tells the third squadmate Eos will have holidays once they understand its seasons. Liam comments it's not a Christmas-type planet.
While talking with Vetra:
Liam thinks the world would finally match the brochures if the team succeeds. When Vetra shares her disappointment on Site 2's failure, Liam assures her the Pathfinder is enough to turn the tables.
On Voeld:
While descending the pass from the Angaran Resistance Base to the rest of the valley for the first time, Liam advises driving carefully down the icy mountain.
Liam complains his toes are numb, thinking his suit's malfunctioning.
He muses they'd all live in snow forts if an outpost is ever planted on Voeld.
Liam criticizes the lack of in-vehicle music during the long drives.
On Kadara:
Liam asks if anyone know good shanties and even offers to pull a parrot out of his ass.
On approach to the angaran town in Kurinth's Valley, Liam wonders if they've got food as he's hungry.
On closer inspection he wants to know what's going on due to the corpses strewn about.
Liam complains that it smells strange and doesn't take well to the suggestion that once he acclimatizes it will be the Tempest that smells strange.
Liam approves of the mountainous region and thinks it could put their jump-jets to the test.
While talking with Jaal:
He wonders aloud how are they going to live there. Jaal points out they can try somewhere else, but Liam retorts they're running out of "somewhere elses".
On Elaaden:
While talking with Drack:
Liam talks about the need to keep the peace, but it wasn't just him.



