



Lift is an unlockable biotic talent available to Adepts, Sentinels, Vanguards, and the Asari Scientist. Using Lift will cause enemies to float helplessly in the air, making them more vulnerable to attack. Although it isn't listed in the in-game text, each point spent increases the force of the lift. Master Lift can regularly launch enemies into the ceiling for extra damage, out of the area as an instant kill, and it can work on just about any free-standing enemy in the game, including a Geth Colossus; however, more advanced enemies often possess high amounts of resistance that can shorten the duration of any tech or biotic effects.
Lift's force is added to the target's current velocity or momentum; for example, using Lift on a charging enemy will cause them to go flying over your head, possibly into a wall or off a cliff; this effect is amplified in areas of lower gravity. Lift can also bring enemies out from behind cover to provide a clear shot by aiming the ability at the ground nearby.
Lift is particularly effective when used on a stationary enemy in conjunction with Throw: once the enemy has been levitated, using Throw can fling the enemy a much greater distance than usual because they will not be knocked back into scenery, and may even result in an instant kill if they are knocked out of the valid map area; for example, using this technique on Saren's goons outside Chora's Den could send them hurtling to their deaths in the traffic below. Lift is also handy against Geth Hoppers and the final boss as it stops them from jumping around. Conversely, Lift has no effect on enemies that are already flying such as most drones.

Talent Ranks[]
Lift: Radius: 4 m. Duration: 6 s. Recharge Time: 60 s. Accuracy Cost: 80%.
Increases the duration of Lift to 6.4 s.
Increases the duration of Lift to 6.8 s.
Increases the duration of Lift to 7.2 s.
Increases the duration of Lift to 7.6 s.
Increases the duration of Lift to 8 s.
Advanced Lift: Radius: 5 m. Duration: 9 s. Recharge Time: 50 s. Accuracy Cost: 60%.
Increases the duration of Lift to 9.4 s.
Increases the duration of Lift to 9.8 s.
Increases the duration of Lift to 10.2 s.
Increases the duration of Lift to 10.6 s.
Master Lift: Radius: 6 m. Duration: 12 s. Recharge Time: 40 s. Accuracy Cost: 40%.
Bugs[]
Lift, along with Throw and Warp, suffer from a bug where they can fail to apply to more than one target, even when multiple targets are within the radius of effect. This bugged behavior occurs when the player targets an enemy with the reticle directly over said enemy (i.e. the enemy is in the very center of the HUD). This occurs for the player's own Throw, Lift, or Warp, or a squadmate's that the player is ordering them to use. The only known workaround is to try not to have the targeting reticle directly over an enemy when using one of these biotics.[1]
References[]

↑ Talk




Mass Effect Talents


Biotic

Barrier • Lift • Singularity • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Assault Rifles • Pistols • Shotguns • Sniper Rifles • Assault Training • Fitness • Basic Armor • Combat Armor • Tactical Armor


Tech

Damping • Decryption • Electronics • First Aid • Hacking • Medicine


Class

Adept • Asari Scientist • Engineer • Infiltrator • Krogan Battlemaster • Quarian Machinist • Sentinel • Soldier • Turian Agent • Vanguard


Player only

Charm • Intimidate • Spectre Training




