









Lilihierax
Shuttle Mechanic

Race
Turian


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
Keith Szarabajka


Appearances
Mass Effect


Lilihierax, better known as 'Li' because humans find his name hard to pronounce, is a turian shuttle mechanic at Port Hanshan on Noveria, found loitering near the garage.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Commander Shepard can talk to him about what is happening locally. Li is very interested in the current scandal regarding Administrator Anoleis, Synthetic Insights, and Lorik Qui'in. He can also tell Shepard more about Peak 15's poor reputation, giving insight on the local rumours about the facility lockdown. If asked about Matriarch Benezia's whereabouts, he reports that she took a shuttle to Peak 15 before contact was cut off.
Lilihierax used to be a military tech. As a mechanic, he has a team of twelve serving under him. He is reluctant to lose his current job: Li is one of the people who can enter and leave Port Hanshan even when the place is on lockdown, but he refuses to lend Shepard his garage pass if the Commander asks.

Trivia[]
'Hierax' is the Classical Greek word for 'hawk' and an ancient Greek personal name.
Lilihierax shares many traits with fellow turian the Presidium Groundskeeper in the pride he has for his work and his laid-back, easy-going manner, in direct contrast to the typical turian image of a disciplined warrior.
If one leaves Port Hanshan and returns after the missions have been completed, Lilihierax offers to examine your Mako, as well as offering upgrades. Shepard promptly agrees before the game abruptly ends the conversation. See Cut Content below.
Keith Szarabajka, who voices Lilihierax, Delan, Elias Kelham and Harbinger, also provided the voices for Nug Wrangler Boermor and Herbalist Widron in BioWare's Dragon Age: Origins and Bartrand Tethras in Dragon Age II.





The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

Cut Content[]
The bugged dialogue about buying upgrades suggests Lilihierax was the person on Noveria who would have sold Mako upgrades, which was a feature cut from the game. The dialogue file does contain a broken prompt to open a store screen.[1]
An inaccessible dialogue had Lilihierax react to Shepard returning from Peak 15. He would have asked what happened, and should Shepard tell him about the rachni, he would have dismissed it as a joke.[2]
References[]

↑ Mass Effect Legendary Edition/Game/ME1/BioGame/CookedPCConsole/BIOA_ICE20_04_DSG_LOC_INT.pcc

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Noveria Voicelines##ice20_lilihierax





