









Linron
Salarian Dalatrass

Race
Salarian


Gender
Female


Voice Actor
Grey Delisle[1]


Appearances
Mass Effect 3


Dalatrass Linron is the leader of the Salarian Union in 2186. Described as a "queen bee" of Sur'Kesh's wealthiest bloodline, she retained her position by a narrow margin in a recent election to determine the leadership of the Linron bloodline.

Contents

1 Mass Effect 3
2 Trivia
3 References







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3[]
During a war summit between salarians, krogan, and turians, the dalatrass becomes openly hostile towards the Clan Urdnot leader, Urdnot Wrex or Urdnot Wreav, who demands a genophage cure in exchange for helping the turians hold the Reapers off Palaven. The dalatrass vehemently protests, fearing that the krogan would simply wage war against the galaxy again if they manage to defeat the Reapers. 
Primarch Adrien Victus surmises that a cure would take years to be developed. However, the Urdnot leader reveals a reliable inside source has provided video evidence of surviving fertile female krogan from Maelon's experiments being held captive on Sur'Kesh. Linron questions the authenticity of the evidence but the Urdnot leader would call her out on her lie.
Faced with indisputable evidence and under pressure from both the Primarch and Commander Shepard, the dalatrass is forced to reveal their exact location. At the conclusion of the meeting, she tries to press her point about the long-term effects of the plan, though Shepard can optionally cut her off.
Before heading to Tuchanka, Dalatrass Linron tries to cut a secret deal with Shepard. She reveals that any attempts at curing the genophage will be in vain, as the Shroud facility needed to disperse the cure was already sabotaged by salarian operatives years before. In exchange for keeping the sabotage a secret, she pledges the support of the salarians' First Fleet as well as their finest scientific minds to aid in the construction of the Crucible.
If Shepard cures the genophage, the dalatrass makes her disappointment clear through email and by withholding salarian support. Despite this, Admiral Hackett later reports that STG strike teams are willing to assist Allied forces even without the dalatrass's approval.





Your regrettable decision


From: Dalatrass Linron

Commander, I am deeply disappointed by your actions on Tuchanka. As I thought I made clear, curing the genophage will have long-term consequences. Once the Reaper threat has passed, our combined forces will be so depleted that no race in the galaxy will be capable of stopping a resurgent krogan. Moreover, the krogan will undoubtedly seek revenge for the genophage, and the Salarian Union will be among their first targets. When that day comes, Commander, the blood of my people will be on your hands.

I am ashamed to also learn that our own scientist sacrificed his life carrying out your orders.

This is a dark day not only for my people, but all of galactic civilization.


Dalatrass Linron, Salarian Union



If Shepard fakes the genophage cure, Linron's email is worded differently. If the salarian colonel Vaykom is present in London for the final battle on Earth, he personally reiterates the dalatrass' thanks for handling the krogan "situation".





Your admirable decision


From: Dalatrass Linron

Commander, I am pleased to learn of your decision on Tuchanka regarding the genophage. Reason has prevailed.

Our remote sensing equipment has detected the cure has failed, and the aerosol you released will not properly inoculate the krogan against further reproductive degradation. Our reconnaissance reveals the krogan are unaware of your actions, and continue to believe the genophage has been cured.

Be warned though, Commander. When this conflict with the Reapers has passed, the krogan will eventually realize something is wrong and may seek explanations. When that day comes, our scientists will supply you with fabricated evidence to prove the cure was flawed from the beginning and had no chance of success.

In the meantime, I'm pleased to offer you the formal support of the Salarian Union in your efforts to complete the Crucible and turn the tide against the Reapers. After this war is over, we can all rest assured the galaxy will be safer without the threat of further krogan interferences.


Dalatrass Linron, Salarian Union


Trivia[]
In an Alliance News Network report, it is implied that Linron is not a name of a person per se but the name of a salarian bloodline, along with the Narra bloodline.[2] A bloodline could similarly be identified as a family or a clan name, such as Clan Urdnot.
Grey DeLisle also provides the voices of Nassana Dantius, Lieutenant Durand and  Kahlee Sanders. She also worked on BioWare's Dragon Age: Origins - Awakening, voicing Velanna, Danella, and Private.
References[]

↑ http://www.facebook.com/GreyDelisleVA

↑ http://blog.bioware.com/2012/02/10/alliancenewsnet2/





