









Lord Darius




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Armament
Assault Rifle, Shotgun


Abilities
 Carnage Immunity Shield Boost


Health
Moderate


Shields
High


Locations
Nonuel


The self-styled Lord Darius is a human warlord operating in the Plutus system of the Hades Gamma cluster. 
Darius is extremely arrogant and is taking full advantage of his base's position on Nonuel—a secondary source of element zero—to extort from the Alliance. If Commander Shepard is mostly Renegade, Admiral Hackett sends Shepard to negotiate with Darius.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Darius is clearly angered by Shepard's presence and begins on a hostile note, having choice insults depending on Shepard's gender and psychological profile. He can be convinced to come to an agreement, but he has a lot of outrageous demands. Firstly, he believes he should be treated with the respect he deserves, and insists on being called a "Lord". Secondly, he wants an apology from the Alliance in response to their "illegal" eezo mining on an asteroid in his territory, calling his attacks on the miners "punitive" and "justified". Thirdly, in exchange for mining rights for said asteroid he wants the Alliance to supply him with equipment to make red sand in addition to regular fees and a quantity of the mined eezo. And lastly, to seal the deal he wants Shepard to ask for his cooperation politely and say "please". He is prepared to give an OSD formalizing the details of the arrangement should Shepard agree to all of these demands.
At any point in the conversation, Shepard can tire of Darius and start shooting. During the negotiations, the Spectre has the opportunity to object to only one of the warlord's conditions, as Darius will declare the negotiations over and order his men to attack if he deems he's insulted more than once.
If Shepard does make an objection, Darius angrily claims that he is, in fact, an ally of the Alliance. After the batarians were driven out of the Skyllian Verge, the Alliance supplied weapons and equipment to him so his syndicate, the most powerful in the area, could take over and stabilise the region. Now the Alliance is reneging on its 'partnership' because of the warlord's greed regarding element zero and drug operations.
Once the negotiations are complete Shepard reports back to Admiral Hackett. Whether Darius survives or not, Shepard will realise that Hackett expected and even wanted the Commander to kill Darius. Hackett claims Shepard should not be surprised: "or did you think you were the only one who did whatever was necessary to get the job done?"

Tactics[]
Darius possesses higher health than his Retainers and has five bars of shielding. Both of these will regenerate over time and he can use Immunity for further protection. On Insanity, he will also gain Shield Boost.
Darius is equipped with an assault rifle and a shotgun and will switch between them depending on the range. Using Sabotage against him will simply make him switch from his current weapon. He can also launch Carnage when he is equipped with a shotgun.
While he's more powerful and durable than his Retainers, they will still deal more damage due to their numbers. As such, it might be a good idea to put Darius in the Stasis field and whittle down retainers with all your weapons and powers before he can rejoin the fight.
Even better, as soon as the fight begins, you can use Overload to detonate hazardous containers behind him and potentially blast him off his balcony, giving you a humourous chance to take him out of the fight quickly and easily.
Trivia[]
Unused audio files indicate that had Shepard eliminated Darius, various pirate factions would attempt to halt Alliance mining only for the efforts to be vain. If Shepard spared Darius, the price for element zero will have been inflated due to Darius's demands.[1] The Legendary Edition restored both of the Galactic News reports based on your actions in the first game.
Darius is voiced by Townsend Coleman.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





