









Luj Ansen
Historian

Race
Angara


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Luj Ansen is a historian working for Aya's Repository of History. He's on Pelaav Research Station presently seeking transport off Havarl.






“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
When Kiiran Dals' team found Remnant artifacts while digging around the nearby ruins, Luj was sent to Havarl in order to collect them. His mission was supposed to be finished in a day but things went off-schedule as he was stranded when his shuttle's power core was pierced by a wild branch. 
Luj discovered a crash site on the world that contained an intact starship made by pre-Scourge angara. He sent its navpoint to Avela Kjar on Aya, who then promised to send someone to investigate and advised him not to tell Assistant Torvar about it.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Pathfinder Ryder comes across Luj in a grumpy mood. The historian hasn't been successful in getting offworld, for all shuttles are currently earmarked for emergency support should the kett attack. Should Ryder notice his agitation, Luj snidely asks if they want to be rewarded for that astute observation. 
He has heard of the Pathfinder's visit to Aya, noting that first contact reports spread fast as per the angarans' general air of cautiousness following their disastrous one with the kett. He then formally introduces himself, and can be asked some questions related to his job.
If questioned about Remnant ruins, Luj shares there's a lot outside in the jungle. The angara think the ruins were part of a vast complex, with hallways winding through the area both above and below ground. Revealing the history of Daar Pelaav in the process, Luj likens it to moving into an empty home.
He relates he can thrive on Havarl's other regions, but he hates the current area because of its aggressive and dangerous wilderness. The buildings aren't even safe; he woke up that morning with a thorny vine snaking into his bunk. His parting words of advice to the Pathfinder is to beware of the plants out in the jungle; they're vicious.




