


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 







Lumont Hayjer
Ark Captain

Race
Salarian


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Lumont Hayjer is the captain of the Andromeda Initiative's Ark Paarchero.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Prior to his tenure at Paarchero Hayjer piloted ships and had no other work skills.
When the salarian ark arrived at the Heleus Cluster, the Scourge disrupted the ark's long-range scans and made them lost to the positions of any Initiative spaceships or settlements. Eventually, a kett armada set upon the Ark Paarchero and captured it, even managing to infiltrate the ark's internal systems. Captain Hayjer ordered a communication blackout to counter the kett but saw no choice but to surrender. He ordered the salarians to submit to the kett for the moment until they could live to fight another day. He also convinced the salarian Pathfinder, Zevin Raeka, to hide in the general population and dismantle her SAM so they wouldn't fall into enemy hands. To that end, Hayjer aided Raeka in faking her death and hid her in a dead salarian colonist's stasis pod; as well as leaving behind an encrypted recorded message in the Paarchero's internal systems—should a potential rescuer from the Andromeda Initiative find it—that briefs the viewer of their dire situation and urges them to find Pathfinder Raeka.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Hayjer is found by Raeka following her own revival after the arrival of Pathfinder Ryder's team. He, Raeka, and two other colonists form an impromptu rescue team to liberate their fellow salarians trapped aboard the enemy flagship, the Verakan. When the two colonists balk at their lack of combat experience, Hayjer points to his own and encourages them to fight anyway.
Later, Ryder discovers that the Verakan's guns are trained on the Paarchero and will destroy it before they can even power up the Paarchero's engines. Raeka makes a plan and has Hayjer and the other members of the salarian Pathfinder team rig an EMP device on the Verakan's guns while she independently resumes the search for the captured salarian colonists. After completing their mission, Raeka orders Hayjer to return to Ark Paarchero so he can fly the ark to safety the moment Ryder authorizes their escape.
If Pathfinder Ryder chooses to abandon Pathfinder Raeka to save a group of krogan scouts, Raeka dies and Lumont becomes the new salarian Pathfinder. Pathfinder Hayjer admits that Raeka will be difficult to replace since he hasn't even started Pathfinder training. During a gathering of the Pathfinders in the Nexus, Pathfinder Hayjer will reveal to his colleagues that he has been investigating the kett's Exaltation process in order to find a way to prevent it.
Pathfinder Hayjer later aids in the battle for Meridian, firing on kett fighters from a shuttle, with his weapon powered by the Moshae Sjefa.
After the battle, Ryder can support Hayjer as interim ambassador to the Nexus.
Alternatively, if Ryder chose to rescue Raeka over the krogan scouts, Raeka begins training Hayjer as her successor. Later, during the battle for Meridian, Hayjer leads a squad of salarians in place of the krogan scouts.




