




Luna

Region
Milky Way / Local Cluster / Sol / Earth





Moon View


Orbital Distance
384,403 km


Orbital Period
27.3 Earth Days


Radius
1,737 km


Day Length
27.3 Earth Days


Atm. Pressure
Trace


Surface Temp
−53 °C


Surface Gravity
0.1654 g


Location: Milky Way / Local Cluster / Sol System / Earth


Colony

Species
Human


Capital
Armstrong


Colony Founded
2069


Population
4.1 million



Prerequisite: Level 20 (Mass Effect)

Contents

1 Description
2 Assignments
3 Points of Interest
4 Trivia


Description[]
An early source of helium-3, Luna is now mined for materials used in space habitat construction. Two dozen major stations have been constructed at Earth's L4 and L5 Lagrange points, all from lunar resources.

Assignments[]
Assignment: UNC: Rogue VI

Points of Interest[]



Location

Appearance

Description


1

Initial

Training ground with three dual turrets (UNC: Rogue VI)


2

Initial

CCCP Luna 23 (salvage requires average Electronics.)


3

Unmarked

Four Alliance Heavy Turrets (they don't shut down after the assignment is completed.)


4

Unmarked

Four Alliance Heavy Turrets (they don't shut down after the assignment is completed.)


5

Unmarked

The song associated with the rachni can be heard here.


Trivia[]
The presence of the CCCP Luna 23 probe allows the operational zone to be established as the southern portion of Mare Crisium.
In the novel Mass Effect: Revelation, it is stated that Luna was "terraformed". It would not be possible for Luna to gravitationally retain an Earth-like atmosphere for a geological timescale, due to its low mass. However, the issue was clarified by the game's developers; several of the moon's craters were "domed over", allowing localized terraforming of the surface.
When looking at Earth from the surface of Luna, a reversed image of North America (Mexico, U.S. West Coast) can be seen. This has since been updated in the Legendary Edition to a normal image.
A prevalent in-game wind can be heard, even though Luna's atmosphere is negligible.
Luna is briefly mentioned in both Mass Effect 2 when EDI is first introduced if Shepard orders EDI to be shut down due to distrust towards AIs and in Mass Effect 3 if Shepard chooses to examine the second set of video-logs in Cronos Station during Priority: Cerberus Headquarters.



