







The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.



Lysander Kostas
Leader of the "Voids"

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect (cut)


Lysander Kostas is a cut character who would have been present in Mass Effect during the deleted assignment Global Plot 1. For most of the assignment, he would have been the elusive brother that Vasilis Kostas asked Shepard to find.
Like his brother Vasilis, Lysander was raised in a Nexxus facility as a test subject to experiment prototype biotic implants on. Unlike his brother however, Lysander profoundly resented it and suffered from it, which is why he would eventually escape with other test subjects. These run-away and usually demented biotics would become known as Voids.[1] As Vasilis came to work for Nexxus and eventually became their head of security, Lysander simultaneously tried to help other Voids (using the MindTech company on Noveria) while gathering evidence for 10 years to bring Nexxus down.[2]
Shepard eventually meets Lysander on Noveria, having inadvertently led Vasilis to his secret hide-out. Lysander is already weakened by the Nexxus assault, and his fate is decided by Shepard's choice to support either brother. Letting Vasilis go free will make both Lysander and his right-arm Gregor turn against Shepard, and they are killed with the assistance of Nexxus guards. Siding with Lysander has several different outcomes: if Shepard was quick enough to catch Vasilis before he destroyed Lysander's incriminating data at the cost of letting his friends die, Lysander will be bery grateful to Shepard and harbors no grudge over the loss of his friends. He can't pay Shepard with credits but offers unique biotic prototypes instead, and states he can finally make a move now that Vasilis is gone. If Shepard was too late to save the data, Lysander proposes that Shepard subdues Vasilis so he can "rip" the data from his mind. After this is done, he thanks Shepard and also offers the biotic prototypes.[3] If Shepard chooses to kill Vasilis without letting Lysander capture him, then he'll be saddened by the loss of the data and doesn't reward Shepard with anything, saying it'll take him years to sort it all out, but he's still grateful to Shepard for having saved his friends' lives. In all cases, he has Gregor take Shepard back to Port Hanshan once they are done, thus concluding the assignment.

References[]

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Global Plot 1 Voicelines#gbl01_lysander

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Global Plot 1 Voicelines#gbl01_gregor (2)

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Global Plot 1 Voicelines#gbl01_vasilis (2)





