






This article is about information regarding cut content. For canonically confirmed information, see Lystheni.






The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

The lystheni are an offshoot of salarians whose culture and history would have been developed during the cut assignment Global Plot 3.
The lystheni are described as "similar to salarians, but different in culture, language and ideology." Their name means "the old blood" in their own tongue. They separated from other salarians during the formation of the Citadel Council, evolving separately. They are said to despise everything the Council stands for, and intentionally ignore their laws.
For generations, the lystheni have resided and have harvested asteroids within hanar space in the Attican Traverse. But recently, the hanar have started to allow other species to collect minerals from their asteroids as well. This has resulted in a growing conflict between the lystheni and the hanar, which has culminated in the use of bioweapons on the hanar, and the hanar declaring martial law on lystheni colonies.
During the course of the assignment in search of a missing asari scientist, Dr. Euthalia, Shepard is sent to investigate a lystheni facility located on an asteroid. Euthalia was seemingly kidnapped by the lystheni and forced to develop a bioweapon to use against the hanar, but she instead released a virus that only affects the lystheni and turns them into violent husks. Shepard encounters both uninfected and mutated lystheni, but none of the squadmates are able to understand a word of lystheni language. Eventually Shepard needs to choose between stopping the transmission of data that could pose a danger to the hanar, or saving Euthalia's lystheni-sympathizing assistant Nuriam, who happens to have been the unwilling carrier for the virus. In the aftermath, Shepard has the possibility to convince a hanar senator to stop mistreating the lystheni and start the peace process between the two races.

References[]
Mass Effect Cut Content/Global Plot 3 Voicelines



