









Macha Doyle




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Armament
Pistol


Abilities
Unknown


Health
Low


Shields
Very Low


Locations
Feros


Macha Doyle is a colonist at Zhu's Hope, on Feros. She is busy addressing the colony's water shortage after the geth attack.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Commander Shepard meets Doyle as she is trying to restore the water supply to the colony. She is dismissive of Shepard's questions and directs the Commander to Fai Dan for inquiries about the colony. She appears to be much busier than the other colonists, and will not even turn to look at Shepard while she works. Macha asks the commander to turn on the water valves in the tunnels as the system is inactive and the Normandy cannot ship in enough water to supply them.
Shepard can ask why Doyle has not done anything about the water situation herself. She struggles to answer, claiming she is hurting since the last geth attack and focusing on the water shortage makes the pain go away: whenever she tries to do anything else she feels worse.
As she is infected with spores, the Thorian may have given Doyle a 'standing order' to get water flowing again. Either the Thorian knows how essential water is to human well-being or, as a plant, the Thorian is short of water itself and needs Doyle to obtain it. If Shepard helps, the grateful Doyle hands over a reward.
Along with the other colonists, Macha fights to defend the Thorian when Shepard returns from the ExoGeni Corporation building. She can either be killed, knocked out harmlessly with one of the gas grenades, or knocked out with a melee attack.
If Macha survived the Thorian's destruction, she's grateful for having thoughts of her own again, as she'd forgotten how it was like. While it will take some time to get things back to normal, she's optimistic if Shepard eliminated the geth, got the water flowing, and made the colony viable. If too many colonists died, however, Macha abandons her station and sits next to the pipe instead. She sees no point worrying about the water as the world will be deserted soon anyway. She thinks they could've been a shining beacon for other colonies.

Trivia[]
Macha Doyle is voiced by Cree Summer.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





