









Mad Prophet
Batarian Doomsayer

Race
Batarian


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect 2Mass Effect 3


The Mad Prophet is a batarian doomsayer on Omega.

Contents

1 Mass Effect 2

1.1 Quotes


2 Mass Effect 3: Omega

2.1 Quotes


3 Trivia







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
The Mad Prophet can be found on the left wall before the entrance to Harrot's Emporium. He stands on a crate in front of a small crowd and loudly voices the following anti-human sentiments when Commander Shepard talks to him. He also quotes frequently from something called the "Word".
The public speakers on Omega occasionally run sermons from the Mad Prophet featuring his usual fire and brimstone rhetoric. Those are apparently paid for by the Followers of the Exalted Light of the Word.

Quotes[]

“Repent! The end is nigh!”



“Humans are a blight on galactic purity. You sir! You are a blight! And you! And you, human. And you! (points to Shepard).”



“The Protheans cast off the lesser races: the krogan, the vorcha, and the humans. "And so they dwelled in filth, on worlds made of dirt and feces, and there they lay until they stumbled into the skies." The lesser races will be our downfall! The Word is clear.”



“"Let none in my sight continue to live, lest their impurity displease me." The Word is clear on this, friends. Humans are the hands of the Reapers, here to commit the galaxy to ruin!”



“"Bring unto me the children, that I may watch them grow to soldiers for the cause." The way is clear, my friends. Draw your weapons for the Word, or face its terrible wrath!”



“The end times will come, not with a bang, but with a sigh. Those who dip their extremities in the well of sin and vice must repent with fire, oil, and gun! Let not fleshly friendships and base urges compel us to sin and neglect. The Word makes its demands, and it demands obedience!”



“"And on this great station, the pure shall be rejected, and the lesser races given their places in heaven. And this shall be the beginning of the end." The end times are upon us! Repent and restore your souls to glory!”









“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3: Omega[]
The Mad Prophet is encountered on Omega in 2186 during Aria T'Loak's campaign to recapture the station from Cerberus. During the assault on Afterlife, he can be seen preaching in front of a large crowd in the Gozu District.

Quotes[]

“You were warned! You were all warned! Watch now as the hands of the Reapers, the human invaders, lay ruin to all we hold dear!”



“Repent! Repent and restore your souls to glory before it is too late! This great station has fallen, and all within shall fall with it!”



“For the blight that is humanity stains all within its path, and the only chance at redemption lies in the Word!”



“"Bring unto me the children, that I may watch them grow to soldiers for the cause!"”



“Draw your weapons for the Word, my friends! Draw your weapons and fight, else certain doom awaits us all!”



“Let not the lesser races steal our places within the purity! Obey the Word and repent with fire, oil, and guns!”



“Sally forth and blaze gloriously through the stars!”


Trivia[]
One of his statements is "The world will end not with a bang, but a sigh." This may be a reference to the T.S. Eliot poem The Hollow Men.
This character may be a reference to Gorton Colu, found near the beginning of the BioWare game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, who preached with similar vitriol against non-humans.



