





 
 
 
 




 

 

 

 




Mass Effect Legendary Edition
Learn more about the remastered trilogy release.
 
 Read more >




Mass Effect Legendary Edition Comparison
Learn about the differences and improvements of the Legendary Edition.
 
 Read more >




Citadel
The giant space station defines the galaxy's fate in many ways.
 
 Read more >




Commander Shepard
Innumerable lives were changed by a single Alliance soldier.
 
 Read more >






 

 

 

 






Featured Article

Changes from the Original Mass Effect Trilogy

Although Mass Effect Legendary Edition bundles almost all of the content of Mass Effect, Mass Effect 2, and Mass Effect 3 into a single remaster, and apart from technical details largely stays true to the original trilogy, there are nonetheless numerous changes and improvements ranging from trivial to substantial.  more...

Official Videos

       
Mass Effect™ Legendary Edition Official Reveal Trailer (4K)Mass Effect Legendary Edition – Official Remastered Comparison Trailer (4K)





If you see this, your JavaScript might be disabled or DiscordIntegrator plugin isn't working. If the latter, please contact a wiki administrator.

Affiliated Wikis







Mass Effect News

November 7, 2023 - Bioware is Teasing the Next Mass Effect With Cryptic Videos for N7 Day.
November 7, 2023 - Mass Effect fans and devs use N7 day to send a message to BioWare following layoffs.
November 7, 2022 - Happy N7 Day 2022! BioWare teases the next Mass Effect game in their blog post.
March 6, 2022 - the date marks the 10th anniversary of Mass Effect 3's release.
May 14, 2021 - Mass Effect Legendary Edition is released.
December 10, 2020 - the first teaser for the next Mass Effect game goes live.

Wiki News

June 5, 2021 - The Mass Effect Wiki welcomes two new Administrators, Cattlesquat and DeldiRe, and a new Senior Editor, Neo89515. Elseweyr is now our Bureaucrat. Congratulations!
October 13, 2020 - The Mass Effect Wiki has migrated to the Unified Community Platform. Some visual issues are known, but please notify administrators for further feedback.
April 18, 2019 - Discord server for the Mass Effect Wiki goes live.
October 25, 2016 - Mass Effect Wiki's Discussions feature goes live.





Role-Playing Games (RPGs)
AdventureQuest • 
AdventureQuest Worlds •
Arcanum: Of Steamworks and Magick Obscura • 
Baldur's Gate • 
Biomutant • 
Dark Souls • 
Deus Ex • 
Diablo • 
Divinity • 
Dragon Age • 
Dragon Blaze • 
Dragon Fable • 
Dragon's Dogma • 
Dungeon Siege  • 
Elder Scrolls • 
Ever Grace • 
Everhood • 
Expeditions: Viking • 
Fable • 
Fallout • 
Faster Than Light • 
Five Nights at Freddy's World • 
For Honor • 
For The King • 
The Gamer's Alliance • 
Glitchtale • 
Grand Chase • 
Greedfall • 
Hyper Light Drifter • 
Ib • 
Indivisible •
Jade Empire •
Masquerada • 
Mass Effect • 
MechQuest • 
The Memory of Eldurim • 
Might & Magic • 
Onmyoji • 
Oversoul • 
Shadowrun • 
SpellForce • 
Star Citizen • 
Stories: The Path of Destinies • 
Summoners War • 
Tales of Erin • 
To the Moon • 
Tom Clancy's The Division • 
Torment • 
Transformice Adventures • 
Ultima • 
Undertale • 
Warp Force • 
Wasteland • 
The Witcher • 
Wizardry

Want your community included? See how!









