




Maji

Region
Milky Way / Armstrong Nebula / Vamshi





Planet View


Orbital Period
5.9 Earth Years


Radius
5,727 km


Day Length
55.3 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.42 atm


Surface Temp
−121 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.85 g


Mass
0.68 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Armstrong Nebula / Vamshi System /  First planet

Contents

1 Description
2 Assignments
3 Points of Interest
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Lifeforms
6 Properties
7 Trivia


Description[]
Maji orbits the Vamshi binary giant stars. Vamshi-A is a blue star of spectral class A4III which burns at half again the temperature of Sol.  Vamshi-B is an aging red giant of class M5III, over 220 times the size of Sol.
Maji has a thin atmosphere of methane and carbon monoxide.  The difference in temperature between the hemisphere facing the suns and that facing deep space causes constant wind, stirring the silica and sodium dust of the surface.
Unsavory characters from the Terminus Systems occasionally use Maji for forms of cruel sport, dumping slaves, hostages, quarreling shipmates, or even (when bored) vicious animals on the surface.  One must kill the other before they will be rescued from the lethal radiation of the giant stars.

Assignments[]
Assignment: UNC: Geth Incursions
Collection: UNC: Turian Insignias: Insignias ×1 (Edessan Colony)
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals:  Light Metal ×2 / Rare Element ×1
Points of Interest[]



Location

Appearance

Description


1

Initial

Geth outpost (UNC: Geth Incursions)


2

Initial

Crashed probe (requires moderate or high Electronics to salvage).


3

Initial

Ancient debris (UNC: Turian Insignias)
  
“This strange-looking sensor has some ancient graffiti scribbled on it.  It appears to be marked with the Edessan Colony insignia.”




4

Discovery

Odd Skull

“This massive skull is scored by deflected mass accelerator shots.  The xenobiology files in your hardsuit computer can't identify the species.  It must have been brought here from an unknown world.”




5

Unmarked

Five Geth Heavy Turrets are dotted along the road leading to the outpost


Mineral Deposits[]

Main article: UNC: Valuable Minerals


Location

Element

Class


1

Magnesium

Light


2

Beryllium

Light


3

Thorium

Rare


Lifeforms[]
Geth Colossus
Geth Rocket Trooper
Geth Sniper
Properties[]
Maji's soil has grasslike lifeforms that can thrive in methane/carbon monoxide environments.
The operational area features a moderate wind that has a noticeable but not debilitating effect on visibility. There are no major obstacles from the Mako's landing zone at the southwest, hence the most efficient way of swinging by all points of interest—from the south thorium deposit going to the cluster of southeast objects then to the northwest points in a counterclockwise direction—is a fairly straight shot.

Trivia[]
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition, Maji's terrain now features 3D grass carpeting instead of plain dirt textures.



