









Evan Bell-Scott
Majordomo

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Majordomo Evan Bell-Scott is an assistant of Prodromos mayor August Bradley. His job consists of mostly managing scraps and small businesses as Bradley is pretty tied into colonial affairs. He restlessly paces around his office in the first floor of the prefab in front of the mayor's usual hangout.

Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect: Andromeda

2.1 Counting Corpses









“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Bell-Scott joined the Initiative looking for a purpose in life. He considered himself an "insufferable ass", as the colonist training did not deter him when it should have. He didn't know how to stop alienating people until he was the alien.
He left behind relatives on Earth, and often missed them. For some reason he couldn't justify, he also missed the wet-dog smell of melting snow back there.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
The majordomo likes that he came from somewhere, admitting to a feeling of wanderlust that Pathfinder Ryder can agree with or disagree. On the subject of his origins, he asks Ryder if they also missed anything, and they can commiserate on the shared nostalgia (or lack thereof).
Bell-Scott's opinion on planetary viability changes as time passes, though he's generally optimistic about it. At the start, he thinks if they keep up the effort they'll make Eos look just like in the brochures. Eventually, he rates Eos as a "diamond": it may not have been a golden world, but it's a lot harder and more valuable now.
The majordomo's opinion on his boss also varies depending on outpost type. Bradley gets along well with the troops on a military outpost. On the other hand, he notes Bradley knows how to firmly handle the denizens of a scientific outpost, savvy enough not to get bogged down on details.
Bell-Scott is convinced that the settlement will improve Eos' viability even as he foresees an uptick of kett activity in the region. If they're on a science outpost, Bell-Scott credits the research teams for coming up with ingenious defenses. If they're on a military outpost, the majordomo estimates their security is enough to repel any attacks but not enough for the rest of the planet. 
The majordomo has also coordinated with a "kett expert" Ryder purportedly assigned for further details on the enemy presence, but the Pathfinder claims no knowledge of this person. Nevertheless, Bell-Scott sends them a navpoint for investigation. If Ryder already dealt with the kett, Bell-Scott expresses his gratitude.

Counting Corpses[]
If Ryder catalogues all the missing bodies from Site 1: Promise and Site 2: Resilience, Bell-Scott notices that the numbers don't add up. There should be more bodies and he needs precision on this matter more than most. He notes several possibilities on the fate of the missing personnel and asks the Pathfinder to verify them. 
Ultimately, Ryder may discover that a shuttle escaped the destruction of Site 2 that's now drifting in the Eriksson sector. Some personnel are still alive, in stasis, and can be evacuated by the Nexus. On hearing the news, Bell-Scott allows them the choice to come back to Eos.




