




Mallox

 







Faction
Outlaws


Weapons / Attacks
M-76 Revenant


Abilities
–


Health
Normal


Shields
–


Weak Points
Head


Mallox is an entrepreneur who runs Charybdis Point, an exile hostel in Sulfur Springs.

Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect: Andromeda
3 Capabilities
4 Tactics
5 Trivia







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Mallox followed Sloane Kelly away from the Nexus, but when they settled on Kadara Port he was forced out for failing to pay her regular protection fees. He endured a few months in the wilderness with no water nor weapons to hunt, though he was determined to survive as he didn't waste 600 years of travel only to starve to death. 
He was lucky to survive the ordeal as he managed to band with other exiles. He decided to see if strength in numbers is true, so he established board and lodging for people in similar straits. Mallox dated a human once who had an interest in mythology, so he named his business Charybdis Point in remembrance.
Mallox's crew came across an angaran daar in Kurinth's Valley, who took advantage of the group by charging them exorbitantly for basic necessities. As the angara were the only people in Kadara who knew how to properly filter its water, Mallox offered to pay them for their filter designs, but they refused as they wanted to keep his group dependent on them. 
Eventually Mallox's group managed to steal the water filter designs, and in revenge they covertly messed with the daar's filtration systems, slowly poisoning its residents with them none the wiser.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Mallox welcomes visitors to Charybdis Point and is more than willing to discuss business, how he ended up there, and how the place was born. However, if he's asked about the poisoned daar, he denies anything to do with the unfortunate event, belligerently demanding Pathfinder Ryder to either rent a bed or "get the fuck out".
Should Ryder discover a crate of water filters underneath the hostel, Mallox enters the scene and warns the Pathfinder to drop their investigation. As Ryder won't budge without answers, Mallox justifies the massacre of the daar, musing that since they're dead he also took over their business. 
Ryder isn't willing to let the issue stand, so Mallox orders his crew to kill the Pathfinder's squad. He also joins the fight, though he doesn't last.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Mallox runs with an Outlaw crew in addition to his Revenant assault rifle. In melee range he attempts to punch his targets.

Defensive
Mallox is unarmored and unshielded.

Tactics[]
Because the fight starts in close quarters, three against one, and he's completely without defenses, Mallox can be easily dispatched with little effort with whatever means are available: more effort is actually required to keep him alive for whatever reason.
His damage output with the Revenant is negligible on all difficulties, though if he's allowed to live he can whittle down your team's health and shields in conjunction with his Outlaw goons around the hostel.
Trivia[]
Mallox can be scanned and he registers as a Raider.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




