


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
The Marketplace in Aya's capital city serves as a business center for exchanging goods of all shapes and sizes.
Contents

1 Layout
2 Missions
3 Characters
4 Datapads







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Layout[]
Entering the marketplace from the west, there's a fast travel station before the main area for quick access to the rest of the city. 
The main area features a Holographic Message Terminal surrounded by merchant stalls. Oniijev, Merivaas, and Yveth sell armor, materials, and general goods, respectively. Felaan sells fruits, while Xaan Ingil refuses to sell to aliens. Vetra Nyx can often be found here bargaining with the merchants.
The balcony to the north has a few benches and a sweeping view of the vista beyond. Above a set of stairs to the east is a small space for holding citizen's forums, where its participants debate on recent discoveries such as exaltation, their purpose as artificially-created beings, and who gets to settle Meridian. The set of stairs to the south leads to the Governor's Office. 

Missions[]



Priority Ops
A Trail of Hope I


Allies and Relationships
Liam Kosta: Day out on Aya




Heleus Assignments
Movie Night: Snacks


Additional Tasks
Task: Laws and Customs
Task: Local Cuisine
Task: Messages to the Nexus
Task: Outpost Supplies on Eos
Task: The Nexus Exchange
Task: The Witnesses

Characters[]
Arbiter Renaav
Felaan
Merivaas
Oniijev
Xaan Ingil
Yveth
Datapads[]



The Resistance Needs Volunteers

Translated from Shelesh:

The kett have felt the power of the Resistance, and they know their end is coming. Our victories on Voeld are only the beginning of what we can achieve, but we can't defeat the enemy without your help. If you're tired of living in fear, if you believe we were meant for something greater than slavery, if you're willing to stand up and fight: you'll find a new family in the Resistance. We'll train you to strike back at the kett and reclaim what is ours.


The Resistance defends the future of all angara. Join us.





