






This article is about Mass Effect 3. For a walkthrough of the first game, see Mass Effect Guide. For a walkthrough of Mass Effect 2, see Mass Effect 2 Guide. For a walkthrough of Mass Effect: Andromeda, see Mass Effect: Andromeda Guide.

Contents

1 Main Plot

1.1 Prologue
1.2 Act I
1.3 Act II
1.4 Act III


2 Side Missions

2.1 Priority: The Citadel I
2.2 Priority: Palaven
2.3 Priority: Sur'Kesh
2.4 Priority: Tuchanka
2.5 Priority: The Citadel II
2.6 Priority: Geth Dreadnought
2.7 Priority: Rannoch
2.8 Priority: Thessia





This page contains a walkthrough for the main missions of Mass Effect 3. Major changes in the gameplay from Mass Effect 2 are listed in the main Mass Effect 3 page, while the effects of importing a saved game from Mass Effect 2 are listed in the Save File Transfer page. For a comprehensive introduction to the mechanics of the actual fighting the player must engage in on most missions, see the combat page.
Legendary Edition: All content that was previously available only from Downloadable Content (DLC) is now included by default, but overall requirements and prerequisites for the missions and characters only available from DLC in the original game remain largely the same. Legendary Edition does feature many changes to the original Mass Effect 3, including changes to how certain equipment is obtained.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Main Plot[]
For a summary of when various NPC allies become available to join Shepard's crew and an overview of their capabilities, see Squad Members Guide (Mass Effect 3).
The following missions represent plot progression. They have no time limit, but each mission must be completed before the next becomes available.

Prologue[]
Prologue: Earth - Get to the Normandy SR-2 to escape Earth as the Reapers invade.
Priority: Mars - Save Liara T'Soni from Cerberus and retrieve her data on the Crucible, a weapon capable of stopping the Reapers.
Priority: The Citadel I - Begin rallying the other sentient races of the galaxy to the cause.
Act I[]
Priority: Palaven - Rescue a turian primarch.
Priority: Sur'Kesh - Hold a war summit with the turian, salarian, and krogan leaders, then protect a krogan female from a Cerberus attack.
Priority: Tuchanka - Escort the krogan female and a salarian scientist to the Shroud to disperse a cure for the genophage.
Act II[]
Priority: The Citadel II - Save the Citadel Council from a Cerberus coup attempt.
Priority: Perseus Veil - Meet with quarian representatives who wish to assist with the Crucible project.
Priority: Geth Dreadnought - Infiltrate and destroy a geth dreadnought before the Migrant Fleet is wiped out.
Priority: Rannoch - Infiltrate a Reaper base on the surface of Rannoch to deactivate the signal upgrading the geth.
Priority: The Citadel III - Meet with the asari Councilor to receive the location of a clue regarding the whereabouts of the Catalyst.
Priority: Thessia - Reach an asari temple on Thessia to retrieve vital information as the Reapers devastate the planet.
Priority: Horizon - Investigate Cerberus's connection to a refugee center on Horizon.
Act III[]
Note:  No  side missions can be completed once you begin Act III, so finish up anything else you want to finish before heading to Cerberus Headquarters.

Priority: Cerberus Headquarters - Assault Cerberus's headquarters to recapture a Prothean VI that can identify the Catalyst.
Priority: Earth - Gather the galaxy's forces and launch the final battle to retake Earth from the Reapers and deploy the Crucible.
Side Missions[]
These missions are issued or can be acquired as the game progresses. They are sorted according to the Priority mission after which they become available. The opportunity to complete certain side missions expires once specific main plot missions are completed. Others are marked as failed if not completed before a number of other missions are completed. These missions are noted below as "progress-sensitive missions" and "timed missions" respectively. Be aware that any side missions not completed before the main plot mission Priority: Cerberus Headquarters will no longer be accessible for the remainder of the game.
Note:  Italicized mission names denote minor missions which can be completed merely through planet scanning, conversations, or finding an item during another mission. 

Priority: The Citadel I[]
N7: Cerberus Lab
Priority: Eden Prime
DLC Mission: Requires the DLC pack Mass Effect 3: From Ashes.
Eden Prime: Resistance Movement
Progress-Sensitive Mission: This mission cannot be completed if not accomplished during your first and only time on Eden Prime.
Shrike Abyssal: Prothean Obelisk
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Palaven.
Priority: Palaven[]
Apien Crest: Banner of the First Regiment
Aria: Blood Pack
Aria: Blue Suns
Aria: Eclipse
Benning: Evidence
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Sur'Kesh.
Progress-Sensitive Mission: This mission expires if not completed before Priority: Tuchanka.
Citadel: Alien Medi-Gel Formula
Progress-Sensitive Mission: This mission expires if not completed before Priority: Tuchanka.
Citadel: Aria T'Loak
DLC Mission: Requires the DLC pack Mass Effect 3: Omega.
Citadel: Barla Von
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Sur'Kesh.
Progress-Sensitive Mission: This mission expires if not completed before Priority: Tuchanka.
Citadel: Biotic Amp Interfaces
Progress-Sensitive Mission: This mission expires if not completed before Priority: Tuchanka.
Citadel: Dr. Bryson
DLC Mission: Requires the DLC pack Mass Effect 3: Leviathan.
Citadel: GX12 Thermal Pipe
Citadel: Hanar Diplomat
Mass Effect 2 Squadmate Cameo: If recruited and alive, Kasumi Goto will appear in this mission.
Progress-Sensitive Mission: This mission expires if not completed before Priority: Tuchanka.
Citadel: Heating Unit Stabilizers
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Tuchanka.
Citadel: Improved Power Grid
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Sur'Kesh.
Progress-Sensitive Mission: This mission expires if not completed before Priority: Tuchanka.
Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation
Progress-Sensitive Mission: This mission expires if not completed before Priority: The Citadel II.
Mass Effect 2 Squadmate Cameo: If alive, Jack will appear in this mission.
Irune: Book of Plenix
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Tuchanka.
Ismar Frontier: Prototype Components
Progress-Sensitive Mission: This mission expires if not completed before Priority: Tuchanka.
Kite's Nest: Pillars of Strength
Priority: Sur'Kesh[]
Attican Traverse: Krogan Team (alternatively titled Attican Traverse: The Rachni)
Main Plot Progression: Unlocks the main plot mission Priority: Tuchanka if done before Tuchanka: Turian Platoon.
Mass Effect 2 Squadmate Cameo: If recruited and alive, Grunt will appear in this mission.
Citadel: Krogan Dying Message
N7: Cerberus Abductions
N7: Cerberus Attack
Tuchanka: Turian Platoon
Main Plot Progression: Unlocks the main plot mission Priority: Tuchanka if done before Attican Traverse: Krogan Team.
Progress-Sensitive Mission: This mission expires if not completed before Priority: Thessia.
Citadel: Cerberus Automated Turret Schematics
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: The Citadel II.
N7: Cerberus Abductions
Tuchanka: Bomb
Timed Mission: This mission will be marked as failed if not completed within three missions after acquisition.
Priority: Tuchanka[]
N7: Cerberus Fighter Base
Priority: The Citadel II[]
Arrae: Ex-Cerberus Scientists
Mass Effect 2 Squadmate Cameo: If alive, Jacob Taylor will appear in this mission.
Athena Nebula: Hesperia-Period Statue
Citadel: Batarian Codes
Citadel: Cerberus Ciphers
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Thessia.
Citadel: Cerberus Retribution
Citadel: Cerberus Turian Poison
Citadel: Chemical Treatment
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Geth Dreadnought.
Citadel: Inspirational Stories
Citadel: Kakliosaur Fossil
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Geth Dreadnought.
Citadel: Medical Supplies
Citadel: Medi-Gel Sabotage
Citadel: Reaper Code Fragments
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Geth Dreadnought.
Citadel: Shore Leave
DLC Mission: Requires the DLC pack Mass Effect 3: Citadel.
Citadel: Target Jamming Technology
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Geth Dreadnought.
Citadel: Volus Ambassador
Mass Effect 2 Squadmate Cameo: If recruited and alive, Zaeed Massani will appear in this mission.
Citadel: Wounded Batarian
Dekuuna: Code of the Ancients
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Rannoch.
Hades Nexus: Obelisk of Karza
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Rannoch.
Hades Nexus: Prothean Sphere
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Rannoch.
Kallini: Ardat-Yakshi Monastery
Mass Effect 2 Squadmate Cameo: If recruited and alive, Samara will appear in this mission.
Citadel: Asari Widow
Nimbus Cluster: Library of Asha
Silean Nebula: Rings of Alune
This mission cannot be completed before Priority: Rannoch.
Valhallan Threshold: Prothean Data Drives
Priority: Geth Dreadnought[]
N7: Fuel Reactors
Rannoch: Admiral Koris
Main Plot Progression: Unlocks the main plot mission Priority: Rannoch.
Progress-Sensitive Mission: This mission expires if not completed before Priority: Rannoch.
Rannoch: Geth Fighter Squadrons
Main Plot Progression: Unlocks the main plot mission Priority: Rannoch.
Progress-Sensitive Mission: This mission expires if not completed before Priority: Rannoch.
Priority: Rannoch[]
Dekuuna: Elcor Extraction
Priority: Thessia[]
N7: Communication Hub




Mass Effect 3 Guides




Completion

Walkthrough • Morality • Search and Rescue • Equipment and Items


Classes

Adept • Engineer • Infiltrator • Sentinel • Soldier • Vanguard


Other

Squad Members • Power Combos • PC Tweaks • Interrupts • Merchants • The One and Only




