


Mass Effect: Conviction is an eight-page mini-comic that details how Alliance soldier James Vega came to be a part of Commander Shepard's trial on Earth. It is written by Mass Effect 2 lead writer Mac Walters.
The comic was first mentioned in an interview with Mac Walters on July 26, 2011 as an unnamed third eight-page comic that he was working on, but no details were provided.[1] Mass Effect: Conviction was released for free in September 2011 through Dark Horse Digital, although it is no longer available as a standalone issue.[2] It is included in compendiums like the graphic novel release of Mass Effect: Invasion, Volume 1 of Mass Effect Library Edition, and in Mass Effect: The Complete Comics.

Contents

1 Release Information
2 Story
3 Trivia
4 References


Release Information[]
Publication Date: September 2011
Tagline: N/A
Writer: Mac Walters
Artist: Eduardo Francisco
Colorist: Michael Atiyeh
Cover Artist: Eduardo Francisco







“That's gonna cost you, kid.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Conviction follow.




Story[]
Days after the destruction of Bahak, the galaxy is in turmoil over Commander Shepard's alleged actions. While the Citadel Council denounces the Commander and Councilor Udina deflects blame from the Systems Alliance, the Batarian Hegemony calls for retribution for the apparent terrorist acts.

On Omega, Alliance soldier James Vega plays cards in a bar as he watches a newscast about the uproar. Without warning, he rips the screen from the wall, offering to pay the krogan bartender for the damages. The batarians Vega was playing cards with become confrontational and accuse him of being a "Shepard Lover". Vega tries to calm them down, but they charge him. He bashes one batarian over the head with the screen, then rushes the leader of another group, both of them crashing through a window. The rest of the batarians surround Vega and attack.
The fight is interrupted by the arrival of Admiral Anderson and a contingent of soldiers. Anderson informs Vega that he is being brought in for more training. As they board an aircar, Anderson tells Vega that he must get past "the incident on Fehl" and "be the soldier [they] expect of [him]". Vega argues, demanding that Anderson throw him in the brig as they approach the Normandy SR-2. Anderson then explains that Vega will actually be guarding the brig, and one special prisoner: Commander Shepard.

Trivia[]
The single omniscient-view narration panel in the comic assumes Shepard had a hand in the destruction of Bahak while the rest of the comic in-universe still treats it as an "alleged" action. In Mass Effect 3, players who did not experience the Arrival DLC may instead learn that a division of Alliance marines were responsible.
References[]

↑ https://web.archive.org/web/20111206191553/http://www.newsarama.com/games/mac-walters-mass-effect-3-invasion-interview-110726.html

↑ https://digital.darkhorse.com/series/11/mass-effect




Mass Effect Series


Games

Mass Effect (CE, ♫) • Mass Effect 2 (CE, ♫) • Mass Effect 3 (CE, ♫, Multiplayer) • Trilogy • Mass Effect Legendary EditionMass Effect: Andromeda (DE, ♫, Multiplayer)


Mobile Games and Apps

Mass Effect Galaxy • Mass Effect: Infiltrator • Mass Effect 3: Datapad • Mass Effect: Andromeda APEX HQ


Downloadable Content

Mass Effect • Mass Effect 2 • Mass Effect 3


Books

Revelation •  Ascension • Retribution • Deception • Nexus Uprising • Initiation • Annihilation


Comics

Redemption •  Evolution • Invasion • Homeworlds • Foundation • Incursion • InquisitionConviction • Blasto: Eternity is Forever • He Who Laughs Best • Library Edition • Discovery


Films

Paragon Lost (♫) • Mass Effect





