






This article is about the locations of mods, weapons and armor in single-player Mass Effect 3. For a similar guide for Mass Effect 2, see Upgrade Guide. For equipment generally, see Equipment. For armor information, see Armor Customization (Mass Effect 3). For information on mods, see Weapon Mods.

This Equipment Guide details how important collectibles such as weapons, weapon mods, armor, intel, and Citadel mission items can be acquired during gameplay throughout Mass Effect 3. Many items can be found during missions while others can be purchased from the various merchants on the Citadel and a few other select locations.
Legendary Edition:  All content for the Mass Effect trilogy that was previously available only from Downloadable Content (DLC) is now included by default. Legendary Edition features many differences from the original trilogy games, including multiple changes to how certain equipment that is DLC-exclusive in the original games is obtained, especially in the latter two games. Differences between versions should be marked with orange notation.

Contents

1 Upgrades by Location/Mission

1.1 Main Missions

1.1.1 Priority: Mars
1.1.2 Priority: Palaven
1.1.3 Priority: Sur'Kesh
1.1.4 Priority: Tuchanka
1.1.5 Priority: The Citadel II
1.1.6 Priority: Geth Dreadnought
1.1.7 Priority: Rannoch
1.1.8 Priority: Thessia
1.1.9 Priority: Horizon
1.1.10 Priority: Cerberus Headquarters


1.2 Side Missions

1.2.1 N7: Cerberus Lab
1.2.2 N7: Cerberus Attack
1.2.3 Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation
1.2.4 Arrae: Ex-Cerberus Scientists
1.2.5 Attican Traverse: Krogan Team
1.2.6 Kallini: Ardat-Yakshi Monastery
1.2.7 N7: Cerberus Abductions
1.2.8 N7: Cerberus Fighter Base
1.2.9 N7: Communication Hub
1.2.10 N7: Fuel Reactors
1.2.11 Rannoch: Admiral Koris
1.2.12 Rannoch: Geth Fighter Squadrons
1.2.13 Tuchanka: Turian Platoon
1.2.14 Tuchanka: Bomb
1.2.15 Priority: Eden Prime
1.2.16 Citadel: Leviathan I
1.2.17 Mahavid: Leviathan
1.2.18 Citadel: Leviathan II
1.2.19 Namakli: Leviathan
1.2.20 Despoina: Leviathan
1.2.21 Omega: Aria T'Loak

1.2.21.1 The Invasion of Omega
1.2.21.2 Talon Territory
1.2.21.3 The Mines
1.2.21.4 The Assault on Afterlife


1.2.22 Citadel Wards: Ambush
1.2.23 Citadel Archives: Escape
1.2.24 Citadel Docks: Retake the Normandy




2 Upgrades by Item Type

2.1 Armor

2.1.1 Archon Visor
2.1.2 Ariake Technologies
2.1.3 Armax Arsenal
2.1.4 Blood Dragon Armor
2.1.5 Capacitor Helmet
2.1.6 Cerberus Armor
2.1.7 Collector Armor
2.1.8 Death Mask
2.1.9 Delumcore Overlay
2.1.10 Hahne-Kedar
2.1.11 Inferno Armor
2.1.12 Kassa Fabrication
2.1.13 Kestrel Helmet
2.1.14 Kuwashii Visor
2.1.15 Mnemonic Visor
2.1.16 N7 Armor
2.1.17 Recon Hood
2.1.18 Rosenkov Materials
2.1.19 Securitel Helmet
2.1.20 Sentry Interface
2.1.21 Serrice Council
2.1.22 Terminus Armor
2.1.23 Umbra Visor


2.2 Assault Rifles
2.3 Heavy Pistols
2.4 Shotguns
2.5 Sniper Rifles
2.6 Submachine Guns
2.7 Weapon Mods

2.7.1 Assault Rifle Mods

2.7.1.1 Assault Rifle Extended Barrel
2.7.1.2 Assault Rifle High-Velocity Barrel
2.7.1.3 Assault Rifle Magazine Upgrade
2.7.1.4 Assault Rifle Omni-Blade
2.7.1.5 Assault Rifle Piercing Mod
2.7.1.6 Assault Rifle Precision Scope
2.7.1.7 Assault Rifle Stability Damper
2.7.1.8 Assault Rifle Thermal Scope
2.7.1.9 Assault Rifle Ultralight Materials


2.7.2 Heavy Pistol Mods

2.7.2.1 Pistol Cranial Trauma System
2.7.2.2 Pistol Heavy Barrel
2.7.2.3 Pistol High-Caliber Barrel
2.7.2.4 Pistol Magazine Upgrade
2.7.2.5 Pistol Melee Stunner
2.7.2.6 Pistol Piercing Mod
2.7.2.7 Pistol Power Magnifier
2.7.2.8 Pistol Scope
2.7.2.9 Pistol Ultralight Materials


2.7.3 Shotgun Mods

2.7.3.1 Shotgun Blade Attachment
2.7.3.2 Shotgun High Caliber Barrel
2.7.3.3 Shotgun High-Velocity Barrel
2.7.3.4 Shotgun Omni-Blade
2.7.3.5 Shotgun Shredder Mod
2.7.3.6 Shotgun Smart Choke
2.7.3.7 Shotgun Spare Thermal Clip
2.7.3.8 Shotgun Ultralight Materials


2.7.4 Sniper Rifle Mods

2.7.4.1 Sniper Rifle Concentration Mod
2.7.4.2 Sniper Rifle Enhanced Scope
2.7.4.3 Sniper Rifle Extended Barrel
2.7.4.4 Sniper Rifle High-Velocity Barrel
2.7.4.5 Sniper Rifle Piercing Mod
2.7.4.6 Sniper Rifle Spare Thermal Clip
2.7.4.7 Sniper Rifle Thermal Scope
2.7.4.8 Sniper Rifle Ultralight Materials


2.7.5 Submachine Gun Mods

2.7.5.1 SMG Heat Sink
2.7.5.2 SMG High Caliber Barrel
2.7.5.3 SMG High-Velocity Barrel
2.7.5.4 SMG Magazine Upgrade
2.7.5.5 SMG Power Magnifier
2.7.5.6 SMG Recoil System
2.7.5.7 SMG Scope
2.7.5.8 SMG Ultralight Materials




2.8 Medi-gel Upgrades

2.8.1 Capacity
2.8.2 Efficiency


2.9 Intel
2.10 Citadel Mission Items




Upgrades by Location/Mission[]
Main Missions[]
Priority: Mars[]
M-92 Mantis: Picked up in front of a dead soldier soon after leaving the shuttle. Available to Infiltrators at the start of the mission. If it is not picked up it can be obtained later on from a dead soldier right before entering the tram car.
Ariake Technologies Gauntlets: Picked up from a shelf in the room with the security console that opens the first door back outside.
M-4 Shuriken: Same room as previous. Picked up past the console that opens the first door back outside, is located near a med-kit. Available to Adepts and Engineers at the start of the mission.
Kassa Fabrication Chestplate: Picked up outside next to a ladder back up.
SMG Scope: Located to the right of the bottom of the stairs in the dark cafeteria before reaching the shootable glass windows.
SMG Ultralight Materials: In the room with the Weapon Bench behind some boxes.
Sniper Rifle Extended Barrel: Found in the sterilization room on a table; angle the sterilizing lasers so that you can reach this item.
Shotgun High Caliber Barrel: Found in the sterilization room.
M-23 Katana: Located near a dead Cerberus Assault Trooper after the sterilization room. Available to Sentinels, Soldiers, and Vanguards at the start of the mission.
Sniper Rifle Concentration Mod: In the tram station control room to the left of the "Auto turret controls" button.
M-15 Vindicator: Located at the other end of the tram line at the arrival station, in a closet at the back-left.
Shotgun Shredder Mod: Located near the Vindicator, in a closet at the back-right of the other end of the tram station.
Priority: Palaven[]
M-97 Viper: In the middle of the first base on some crates, near a datapad.
Pistol Piercing Mod: In a tent neighboring General Corinthus in the same base, in the vicinity of a weapon bench and next to Armax Arsenal shoulder armor.
Armax Arsenal Shoulder Guard: Next to the Pistol Piercing Mod above.
Assault Rifle Piercing Mod: Past General Corinthus' tent to the other end of where you enter the first base, to the left near the gate behind a barrier next to an M-27 Scimitar.
M-27 Scimitar: Next to the Assault Rifle Piercing Mod above.
Hahne-Kedar Greaves: In a tent from the opposite end of where you enter the first base.
Pistol Magazine Upgrade: Between General Corinthus' tent and a tent with a workbench, Pistol Piercing Mod, Armax Arsenal Shoulder Armor, and a workbench, this mod will be atop of a crate next to a datapad.
Assault Rifle Magazine Upgrade: In the airfield after leaving General Corinthus' base for the second time, this mod is located near the center alongside some thermal clips.
Sniper Rifle Spare Thermal Clip: After defeating the Brute and wandering down a winding pathway, you will find two living soldiers that a party member will address directly. This mod will be next to one of them.
Sniper Rifle Enhanced Scope: In the second camp, head all the way to the left along the wall. Once you reach the other end, look to your right and, in front of a tent next to a medkit, this mod can be found.Note: Make sure to get this item before the end of the fight in the second camp, as the mission will then end automatically and you won't be able to get this item.
Priority: Sur'Kesh[]
Assault Rifle Extended Barrel: After exiting the first cutscene with the female krogan Eve, turn around and head up the stairs. This will be lying on a shelf between the two doors.
Shotgun Blade Attachment: After going back outside, you will encounter a group of enemies. In an alcove to the right after encountering these enemies, this mod will be waiting on a shelf on the wall.
Shotgun Spare Thermal Clip: After fighting two groups of enemies, you will enter a room where the passageway is blocked by two plumes of fire. Vaulting the barrier to the left and then jumping over the pit to your right, you can see this mod in a corner to your right.
Pistol High-Caliber Barrel: After being shot at by the two enemies standing in an open shuttle, head to your left past the overhang. When you encounter the next group of enemies, hug the left wall, and this mod will be on a shelf.
Armax Arsenal Greaves: After standing to be identified by a scanner, you will enter a large room with two floors. Walk straight ahead on the floor you entered from, and this armor will be waiting on top of the first table in front of you.
Sentry Interface: In the same room as the Armax Arsenal Greaves, on the same floor, head to the opposite end of the ground floor from where you entered, past the ladder, and head to your left. This armor is lying atop of the bench to your right.
M-13 Raptor: After entering the vicinity of the second quarantine checkpoint, head straight onwards from the entrance until you hit the wall. To your right on a bench, near a corpse, is this sniper rifle.
Pistol Scope: After entering the vicinity of the second quarantine checkpoint, hug the wall to the left of where you initially enter. This mod is atop of a desk perpendicular to the left wall.
Scorpion: After reaching the second quarantine checkpoint, you will need to find a power terminal. In the same red room as the power terminal, on the opposite wall from the terminal on the ground, you can find this pistol.
Priority: Tuchanka[]
Graal Spike Thrower: As you first exit the crawlers, the weapon is leaning against a railing next to a Krogan Scout.
Pistol Magazine Upgrade: To the right of the Graal Spike Thrower, next to the first crawler.
Death Mask: After finding the Graal, behind you next to the Krogan working on the crawlers.
Shotgun Smart Choke: After finding the Graal, behind you next to the Krogan working on the crawlers.
Pistol Melee Stunner: After finding the Graal, behind you next to the Krogan working on the crawlers.
SMG Scope: After Kalros smashes through the bridge guarded by two Ravagers, pass through the covered structure and head down the steps. This will put you in a triangular area which your party will recognize as some sort of memorial. Once you've defeated the enemies that attack you, look around the rubble on the left side (as you enter from the covered structure). The mod is on the ground by the rubble.
Assault Rifle Extended Barrel: After picking up the scope above, there will be a flight of stairs. At the landing, turn to your left; this mod is on the floor.
M-5 Phalanx: Immediately after debarking the convoy to activate the maw hammers, head up the flight of stairs. This weapon will be to your left on the landing.
Priority: The Citadel II[]
Assault Rifle Piercing Mod: In the room after meeting Bailey, up the stairs, on the counter to the right next to a med-kit.
M-76 Revenant: In a bathroom during the first part of the level, in the washroom immediately to the left of where you entered under a sink.
Recon Hood: It is on a table to the left when re-entering the locker room from the bathroom, under the large caution billboard.
Sniper Rifle Extended Barrel: In the side room with the weapon bench and elevator lock box on a shelf.
M-25 Hornet: After riding up an elevator, you'll arrive at a hallway with several small rooms on either side, on a dead Cerberus soldier near the malfunctioning door at the other end.
Pistol Piercing Mod: On a shelf in the first room on the right where you entered this hallway.
M-358 Talon: Behind the locked door on the left from the entrance to this hallway, unlocked by a terminal in the second room on the right. Under the shelves on the wall.
Securitel Helmet: Still in the same hallway area, second room on the left, next to the one that is locked, on a shelf.
Pistol High-Caliber Barrel: On the shelf above the Securitel Helmet.
Sniper Rifle Piercing Mod: In the large, open room which exits to the Executor's office (there is a sign above the exit which says 'Executor'), turn to your right at the exit. On the corner of the long desk, you can pick up this mod.
Priority: Geth Dreadnought[]
Shotgun Smart Choke: Once you are inside the dreadnought, in a little section left of the fork at the first door.
Arc Pistol: After using the docking controls, Tali'Zorah nar Rayya puts this weapon right in front of you during a cutscene.
Sniper Rifle Enhanced Scope: Through first door after picking up the Arc Pistol, next to GARDIAN Defense Data.
Archon Visor: Room after corridor with proximity mines and geth, next to Signal Console.
Geth Pulse Rifle: On a crate to the right in the room just beyond the room with the Archon Visor, just before the door to the Operations Center.
SMG Scope: In Operations Center, next to Operations Center Console (very hard to miss).
Assault Rifle Precision Scope: In the Drive Core, where you find Legion (or a Geth VI) it is on your right after the cutscene near a monitor on the lower level.
Priority: Rannoch[]
SMG High Caliber Barrel: At the bottom of the hill at the start of the Geth Base mission, in the area the geth were coming out of.
Kassa Fabrication Gauntlets: While climbing the geth base, along the back wall by a ladder.
Assault Rifle Piercing Mod: After finding the gauntlets, turn to your right and jump across the gap. You can pick up the mod here.
SMG Ultralight Materials: After you go through the door and they talk about a blast shield, down the ramp to the left.
Assault Rifle Stability Damper: After the SMG Ultralight Materials, in a cul-de-sac to the right at the beginning of the next fight.
Geth Plasma Shotgun: After the Assault Rifle Stability Damper, on top of crates at the end of corridor next to an ammo crate.
Priority: Thessia[]
Umbra Visor: In the first courtyard behind Lieutenant Kurin, leaning against a barrier.
Shotgun High Caliber Barrel: On balcony above broken shotgun (3000 credits), opposite M-98 Widow (the ramp leading up to this mod is located in right corner before going up the ramp to the Asari sniper and M-98 Widow.)
M-98 Widow: About half way through the mission, on the perch the Asari sniper stands on.
Sniper Rifle Concentration Mod: Near the M-98 Widow.
Assault Rifle Extended Barrel: After your first fight with the Ravagers, at the top and tucked between the rubble to the right.
SMG Heat Sink: On the ground outside the Athame Temple in front of the force field.
Priority: Horizon[]
Pistol Scope: After you enter the first building, go downstairs, and fight a group of Cerberus Troopers, pick up this mod next to a Cerberus Trooper corpse lying next to a desk on top of a short set of stairs.
Rosenkov Materials Shoulders: To the left of exit door in the second chamber after draining the pool; it is on top of a bulkhead.
M-12 Locust: Located in the room where you encounter Cannibals and Marauders supported by a barrier engine, after repairing a console, on a table in the raised right side of the lab.
Shotgun Blade Attachment: Just past the M-12 Locust on another table.
M-99 Saber: After the fight with the Brutes and a Banshee, in one of the closed Husk pods. Opening the pods requires overriding the controls at a terminal at the opposite end of the same hall. The terminal is a hologram of the husk pods in a small alcove just before the small set of stairs.
Priority: Cerberus Headquarters[]
M-37 Falcon: After launching the fighter into the wall, the weapon can be found between the debris.
Serrice Council Greaves: Behind you after viewing the first set of three logs (Lazarus Project).
Delumcore Overlay: After a conversation with Admiral Hackett about attacking the station and EDI bypassing the second of two doors, turn right and proceed to the end of the corridor. Enter the door on the right, walk around the console and crates in the center to find this pickup.
Side Missions[]
N7: Cerberus Lab[]
Sniper Rifle Enhanced Scope: In the room that the ramp to the left leads to, you can find this mod tucked into the corner on your left after you have entered the room.
Alien Medi-Gel Formula: Located in the middle of the area in an alcove, it can be retrieved from a console.
N7: Cerberus Attack[]
Note: Completing the mission objective will end the mission instantaneously. Make sure to collect all items beforehand.

Old Grid Schematics: On the other desk apart from the cannon controls in the control room, you can pick up this item by clicking on a hologram.
Armax Arsenal Gauntlets: Near the control room, there are two ramps downwards, one closer to the desk which holds the Old Grid Schematics listed above and which leads outside, and one closer to the actual cannon controls that leads to another room within the same building. Take the ramp to the other room inside the building, and against the wall at the opposite end from the ramp you can pick up this armor.
Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation[]
Assault Rifle Stability Damper: After you begin to head towards Orion Hall, take the door to the right at the sign that reads 'Ascension Hall.' In this next room, climb over the barrier to your right and head up the stairs leading to a door. This mod will be near the top.
SMG Heat Sink: After you encounter the biotic being confronted by two Cerberus Troopers, jump over the barrier into the next room. This item is located directly across the room from the barrier.
M-22 Eviscerator: After you watch the student being gunned down by Cerberus troops, head into the hallway from which he came (it is on the left from where you entered.) This gun is lying on a couch to your left from entering this hall.
M-96 Mattock: After you watch the student being gunned down, open the door to the right from where you enter. There is a couch in front of you as you enter this new room; this gun will be lying on its right side from where you enter.
Mnemonic Visor: After you grab the Mattock, head in a straight line away from where you entered this room until you reach the wall. To your left is a couch, and atop of it is this armor.
Assault Rifle Precision Scope: This is lying atop one of the desks upstairs, where the students are, after fighting an Atlas for the first time.
M-96 Mattock (or M-22 Eviscerator): This and the Sniper Rifle Piercing Mod are contingent on having made a Paragon decision at the end of the Mass Effect 2 DLC, Project Overlord (included in LE). After meeting Octavia, a room will be unlocked for you at the end of the hall. This gun will be inside. Might be replaced by an M-22 Eviscerator on some playthroughs.
Sniper Rifle Piercing Mod: This is in the same unlocked room as the Mattock or Eviscerator above, also dependent on the way Project Overload was finished.
Biotic Amp Interfaces: After meeting Octavia, the tech student shielding herself and other students from the Cerberus troopers, continue towards the next objective. In the next room, you will find a console on the right near the door. You can download the Biotic Amp Interfaces here.
Serrice Council Chestplate: After the room in which you download the Biotic Amp Interfaces, open the door. In the wrecked room you find, head to the left from where you entered. This armor is lying on the couch on the left wall.
SMG Magazine Upgrade: This item is located in the room after encountering the unmanned Atlas. Directly to the left of the entrance to this room, this mod is lying on a couch.
Arrae: Ex-Cerberus Scientists[]
Note: Repairing the last AA gun will immediately take you back to the scientists. Make sure to collect all items beforehand.

Assault Rifle Magazine Upgrade: To the right of the work bench found after meeting with the scientists the first time.
Shotgun High Caliber Barrel: After a cutscene at the top of the stairs, go forward and to the right up to a door. This mod is behind a crate.
Cerberus Turian Poison: From the same stairs, to the left in a corner on top of a box. It looks like a microscope.
Kassa Fabrication Greaves: On the right as you enter the med bay.
M-6 Carnifex: After climbing the ladder in the gas-lit maintenance area after leaving the scientists, this will be on top of a pipe to your left.
SMG High Caliber Barrel: Within a crate alcove amongst some thermal clip boxes on the left after the first encounter with Cerberus back outside, directly before the Telemetry Override.
Sniper Rifle Piercing Mod: Before climbing either tower against the back wall between the towers.
Shotgun Spare Thermal Clip: Climb down the ladder next to the AA gun that is to your right as you approach. On the landing between the first and second ladders, you can pick up this mod.Note: The lower ladder on the right is down-only; you will be able to see this mod from the ground but you must go up the left ladder, then over the connecting platform and back down.
Attican Traverse: Krogan Team[]
M-300 Claymore: In the container, in building on left, at the start of the mission.
Pistol High-Caliber Barrel: In the container to the left of the Claymore.
SMG High Caliber Barrel: To the right of the weapon bench.
Shotgun Shredder Mod: After encountering the first Ravager, to the left next to a dead krogan.
Dying Krogan Message: After the roof collapses, hug the left wall. This item can be found behind one of the sections of webbing that can be burnt through.Note: When you pick up this item, it will not register on your screen immediately; however, it will still be included in your journal.
Shotgun Spare Thermal Clip: After the roof collapses and you emerge from the narrow cavern into the more brightly-lit, wider area, you will encounter two groups of enemies. After finishing off the second, head to the left wall. This item will be against the wall.
Ariake Technologies Shoulders: After picking up the Shotgun Spare Thermal Clip, you will drop down and need to follow a winding path. Eventually, you will need to jump over a gap in order to continue. Up the path in front of you, you will see what looks like two blue lights. This is a dead krogan; this armor is lying next to him.
Pistol Piercing Mod: Next to the second Reaper node on a dead krogan.
Kallini: Ardat-Yakshi Monastery[]
Assault Rifle Stability Damper: Left side of shuttle drop-off location.
Gallae's Electronic Signature: To the left in a small office in the very first pitch black room after descending into the monastery.
Pistol Melee Stunner: Same small office as Gallae's Electronic Signature intel.
Sniper Rifle Spare Thermal Clip: In another small office off the first pitch black room, on right side of entrance near the asari corpse.
Asari Widow: To the right on a PDA after opening the first door you use Bypass on. If Samara survived the events of Mass Effect 2, she will be met here.
Disciple: After entering a hallway after leaving the room where you first meet Falere, in an alcove to the right.
Serrice Council Shoulder Guard: Near the Disciple.
Assault Rifle Precision Scope: After bypassing the door leading to the room with an asari commando corpse, this mod can be found by some containers on the left-hand side of the room.
N7: Cerberus Abductions[]
Dog Tag: Head to the street to your right from where you start; you will come to a stop in front of building 22. Next to the second closest square column to the left of building 22, the Dog Tag is lying on the ground nearby.
Capacitor Helmet: In the same courtyard, to the left of building 22, is building 97. In the corner where 97 and 22 abut, just above the painted numbers 97, is a yellow and black dumpster. This helmet is next to it on the ground.
N7: Cerberus Fighter Base[]
Note: Once you defeat the last enemy, the mission will end automatically. Make sure to collect all items beforehand.

Pistol Magazine Upgrade: From the fighter go straight into the main structure, on a bench to the right.
Heating Unit Stabilizers: On the opposite wall from where the first objective is located (look high, you will need to click one of the monitors mounted on the wall).
N7: Communication Hub[]
Note: Mission will end once you activate the third objective. Make sure to collect all items beforehand.

Ariake Technologies Greaves: Beneath main structure.
Cerberus Ciphers: Facing the 2nd objective and going right, the terminal is along the first wall you hit near the ladder.
N7: Fuel Reactors[]
Rosenkov Materials Chestplate: Found to the left of the starting point.
Chemical Treatment: Head up to the left area at the start, on a datapad that overlooks the radiation below you.
Rannoch: Admiral Koris[]
Note: Mission will end automatically after disabling the last AA gun. Make sure to collect all items beforehand.

Javelin: After encountering the first group of geth, found along the path near a trip mine.
Assault Rifle Magazine Upgrade: After disabling first AA gun, up the hill on a small ledge next to a medkit.
Shotgun Shredder Mod: On a ledge to the left of a clearing with several disabled geth after a climb over the hill, just before meeting Dorn'Hazt.
SMG Magazine Upgrade: On the ground just after talking to Dorn'Hazt, after climbing a ledge.
Armax Arsenal Chest: On a crate near the right AA gun controls.
Target Jamming Technology: Near the left AA gun, there is a terminal on the right wall against the Jamming Tower, labeled Jamming Tower Data; you can pick up Target Jamming Technology here.
Rannoch: Geth Fighter Squadrons[]
Reaper Code Fragments: After traveling through the first access node and destroying a reaper code strand blocking the path, it will be on the left side of the path. It is represented by orange boxes that seem to pop like bubbles off a strand of data. You will need to get quite close to be able to grab it. Very easy to miss.
Improved Geth Resistors: You will receive this inside the Geth Consensus.
Miniaturized Armor Capacitors: You will receive this inside the Geth Consensus.
Tuchanka: Turian Platoon[]
SMG Magazine Upgrade: At the start in an alcove to the left before the ladder.
M-9 Tempest: Located near the first escape pod next to the dead turians.
Sniper Rifle Spare Thermal Clip: At the top of the ladder after the first Harvester.
Phaeston: Just after dropping down from the sniper rifle spare clip and rounding a corner on a dead turian soldier, in the middle of a T-intersection (only if you do not already have the Phaeston at any level).
SMG Ultralight Materials: Straight ahead at the T-intersection mentioned above into a small side room, will be on the left after entering.
Hahne-Kedar Chest: After the second Harvester after the drop down a ledge on your left.
Shotgun Smart Choke: After the next ledge, past the recording.
Sniper Rifle Extended Barrel: After the third Harvester (may flee before you can kill it) down several ledges against the left wall.
Tuchanka: Bomb[]
M-29 Incisor: After clearing the first field, the weapon can be found on the left hand side of a ramp leading to the next area.
Shotgun Blade Attachment: After the Incisor on the left hand side.
Rosenkov Materials Gauntlets: Follow the right wall in the next room. The armor piece will be in a small alcove.
SMG Heat Sink: After the next series of ramps and ledges on the right hand side.
Pistol Scope: Immediately after the next fight after the heat sink, on some crates dead ahead before a large drop to the right into an open area.
Sniper Rifle Concentration Mod: Top of the ladder on a crate after seeing the bomb for the first time.
Pistol Melee Stunner: In the next room behind a crate on your right, before the drop off.
Cerberus Automated Turret Schematics: Found on some crates near a lone turret before meeting with Lieutenant Victus.
Priority: Eden Prime[]
First Terminal with Resistance Movement Data: In building directly behind Elevator Console.
Second Terminal with Resistance Movement Data: After raising elevator and first fight, the terminal is located in Building 5 (to the left after leaving elevator) along the back wall.
Third Terminal with Resistance Movement Data: Drop out of doorway to the right of the second terminal and proceed into Building 2 (which will have 9s on the walls inside); go all the way through the building until you see a row of monitors and terminals, the center terminal has the data.
Particle Rifle: Gained after completing mission.
Citadel: Leviathan I[]
Pistol Cranial Trauma System: With lab behind you, far left corner of balcony.
SMG High-Velocity Barrel: Across from the X3M/Rapid Transit.
Pistol Ultralight Materials: Next to a tree on the right side of balcony.
SMG Recoil System: On shelf near the Rachni information in the second room.
Mahavid: Leviathan[]
SMG High-Velocity Barrel: In bypassable room, near datapad with Dr. Garneau's message.
Pistol Ultralight Materials: In Crew Quarters, after getting personnel ID from datapad outside of Medical Bay.
SMG Recoil System: After Transit Station, after defeating the first husks, on the ground beyond a gap.
Pistol Cranial Trauma System: After defeating Banshees, in farthest corner of area by the door.
Citadel: Leviathan II[]
Assault Rifle Omni-Blade: Equipment locker with filter for requisitioned supplies.
Namakli: Leviathan[]
AT-12 Raider: Found on dead body near first Cannibal.
SMG High-Velocity Barrel: In structure near AT-12 Raider.
SMG Recoil System: In structure after activating the elevator.
Assault Rifle Omni-Blade: First structure after facing off with a Harvester.
Despoina: Leviathan[]
Pistol Cranial Trauma System: Straight down leftmost side from shuttle.
M-55 Argus: Straight down center of area from shuttle.
Assault Rifle Omni-Blade: Located next to M-55 Argus.
Pistol Ultralight Materials: Left side of second section where you have to backup Steve Cortez after he crashes again.
Omega: Aria T'Loak[]
The Invasion of Omega[]
Assault Rifle High-Velocity Barrel: On a box on the right side of the docked fighter behind the large hangar door at the end of the first room.
Pistol Heavy Barrel: Immediately ahead after a short conversation about Omega's skyline.
Shotgun High-Velocity Barrel: After the first encounter with Rampart Mechs, on the counter in the middle of the room before going down the ladder.
N7 Valkyrie: Down the hall after first meeting Nyreen Kandros.
Talon Territory[]
Assault Rifle High-Velocity Barrel: After climbing the first ladder, turn around and destroy the canisters. Activate the lift at the nearby console and climb back down the ladder. Ride the lift to the top to find the mod.
Hacker Terminal 1: The first terminal is right next to the lift controls mentioned above.
Hacker Terminal 2: The second terminal can be found in the same room as your first battle with Cerberus, on the lower level next to the open windows on your right as you enter.
Hacker Terminal 3: After deactivating the Cerberus lockdown in the first room off the hallway, the final terminal is in the second room behind a Turian mercenary you can revive for XP.
Phaeston: In front of you after joining with Nyreen Kandros (only present if you do not already have the Phaeston at any level)
Shotgun High-Velocity Barrel: To the right after joining with Nyreen Kandros.
Sniper Rifle Thermal Scope: In the middle of the righthand catwalk after the disabled elevator escape, in front of the crashed shuttle.
Shotgun Omni-Blade: To the right immediately after the cutscene after arriving at the Talon base.
Kehri Inverter: To the left after the above cutscene, behind some crates.
The Mines[]
Assault Rifle High-Velocity Barrel: Upon reaching the drilling superstructure, on a box through the first gate on the right labeled as Eezo Analysis Testing.
Pistol Heavy Barrel: Right next to ladder before going under the conveyer belt.
Sniper Rifle Thermal Scope: After traveling beneath the conveyor belt and climbing the ladder, proceed ahead left into the "Triage Area". The mod is to the right on a countertop.
Shotgun Omni-Blade: After taking the maintenance elevator up, the mod is on a rack behind where a combat engineer is standing.
Chakram Launcher: On a body between the Shotgun Omni-Blade mod and the Roof Access door.
The Assault on Afterlife[]
Sniper Rifle Thermal Scope: At the beginning of this section, across from the weapons bench.
Aria's Couch: After crossing the extended dam, in the now empty water channel below the ladder.
Shotgun High-Velocity Barrel: After Aria stops a large fan and heading up a ladder, to the left before heading up a second ladder.
Pistol Heavy Barrel: After fighting an Atlas, bypassing a door, and climbing a ladder, in a small pit directly across from the door you enter the next room through.
Shotgun Omni-Blade: Past the Mad Prophet, at the feet of a turian and a krogan shooting over a barricade on the right.
Citadel Wards: Ambush[]
M-11 Suppressor: Received automatically at the start of the mission.
Pistol Power Magnifier: After falling into the lower wards, after the second firefight, in a store called Ryuusei.
Assault Rifle Ultralight Materials: After using Spectre status to bypass the door, the mod will be on display in a store called Cepheid Variables.
Sniper Rifle Ultralight Materials: After meeting Shepard's love interest (if squadmate) or Liara T'Soni (if unromanced or love interest is not a member of Shepard's squad), on the floor opposite the used skycars, directly behind you after the meeting cutscene.
Citadel Archives: Escape[]
Shotgun Ultralight Materials: In the first area, on a desk near a medical station.
SMG Power Magnifier: After passing through the security scanners, on desk near a med kit.
M-7 Lancer: In the vault container used to travel across the archives shortly after the security station. A squadmate will also point the weapon out.
Sniper Rifle High-Velocity Barrel: Move past the holo archive about the Battle of the Citadel to the back of the next room. The mod is on a desk against the far wall.
Assault Rifle Ultralight Materials: In the corridor connecting the holo archives about the genophage with that of the first Spectre, closer to the first spectre holo. (Glyph may point this mod out.)
Sniper Rifle Ultralight Materials: In the same area of the Assault Rifle Ultralight Materials mod, on a box along a short path that runs through the middle of the area towards the exit door. On the opposite side of a pit from the malfunctioning holo display.
Citadel Docks: Retake the Normandy[]
Sniper Rifle Ultralight Materials: When the Normandy starts getting ready to take off, before going down the ladder, near a med station.
Shotgun Ultralight Materials: After climbing down the ladder from the previous mod, straight ahead on some crates.
Assault Rifle Thermal Scope: Aboard the Normandy, at the security checkpoint that leads to the War Room.
Upgrades by Item Type[]
Armor[]
Archon Visor[]
Helmet - Acquired during Priority: Geth Dreadnought.
Ariake Technologies[]
Gauntlets - Located near console before heading back outside for the first time in Priority: Mars.
Chest - Store purchase from Kassa Fabrication after Priority: The Citadel II.
Shoulders - Acquired during Attican Traverse: Krogan Team.
Greaves - Acquire during N7: Communication Hub beneath main structure.
Armax Arsenal[]
Shoulders - In a tent next to General Corinthus' in Priority: Palaven, near a weapon bench and a Pistol Piercing Mod.
Greaves - In Priority: Sur'Kesh, you will eventually need to stand still to be identified by a scanner. After this, you will head into a large room with two floors. Walk straight ahead from where you entered on the ground floor, and this armor will be on the first table in front of you.
Gauntlets - In N7: Cerberus Attack, there are two ramps near the cannon controls. One ramp leads outside, and is nearer the Old Grid Schematics. The other is a ramp that leads to another room in the same building, and is closer to the cannon controls. Head down the ramp that leads to another room, and on the opposite end from the ramp this piece of armor is lying in front of the wall.
Chest - Found during Rannoch: Admiral Koris in right half of Jamming tower area near AA gun on a crate.
Blood Dragon Armor[]
Set - Sold at Kanala Exports after Priority: Palaven.
Capacitor Helmet[]
Helmet - Acquired during N7: Cerberus Abductions.
Cerberus Armor[]
Set - Sold at Elkoss Combine Arsenal Supplies after Priority: Palaven.
Collector Armor[]
Set - Sold at Nos Astra Sporting Goods after Priority: Palaven.
Death Mask[]
Helmet - Acquired during Priority: Tuchanka.
Delumcore Overlay[]
Helmet - Acquired during Priority: Cerberus Headquarters.
Hahne-Kedar[]
Greaves - In a tent from the opposite end of where you enter the first base in Priority: Palaven.
Gauntlets - Sold at Kanala Exports after Citadel: Hanar Diplomat.
Chest - Acquired during Tuchanka: Turian Platoon.
Shoulders - Sold at Elkoss Combine Arsenal Supplies after Priority: Rannoch.
Inferno Armor[]
Set - Sold at Kassa Fabrication after Priority: Mars.
Kassa Fabrication[]
Chest - Located near the ladder leading up after going back outside for the first time in Priority: Mars.
Shoulders - Store purchase from Cipritine Armory.
Gauntlets - Found during the Priority: Rannoch mission.
Greaves - Acquire during Arrae: Ex-Cerberus Scientists.
Kestrel Helmet[]
Helmet - Sold at Batarian State Arms after Priority: The Citadel II.
Kuwashii Visor[]
Helmet - Sold at Aegohr Munitions after Priority: Tuchanka.
Mnemonic Visor[]
Helmet - In Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation, head to the right door after watching the student being gunned down, and head forward from the exit until you reach the wall. To your left should be a couch; this armor lies atop of it.
N7 Armor[]
Set - Acquired automatically after Prologue: Earth.
Recon Hood[]
Helmet - Acquired during Priority: The Citadel II.
Rosenkov Materials[]
Chest - Found to the right of the Extraction Point at the end of the N7: Fuel Reactors mission.
Shoulders - Found in the Priority: Horizon mission just after draining a pool.
Gauntlets - Acquired during Tuchanka: Bomb.
Greaves - Sold at Spectre Requisitions after Priority: The Citadel II.
Securitel Helmet[]
Helmet - Acquired during Priority: The Citadel II.
Sentry Interface[]
Helmet - In Priority: Sur'Kesh, after holding still for a scanner to identify you, you will enter a large, two-story room. On the ground floor, head to the opposite end of this room from where you initially entered, going to the right past a ladder and then to your left. On a bench to your right in this alcove you can find this piece of armor.
Serrice Council[]
Chest - During Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation. Open the door to the right of Octavia and the others taking refuge from two Cerberus troops under an experimental shield bubble emitter. Head through the hallway into the wrecked room. After jumping over the couch, head to the left wall from where you entered. This armor will be lying on the couch.
Shoulders - Found during the Kallini: Ardat-Yakshi Monastery mission near the Disciple.
Gauntlets - Sold at Nos Astra Sporting Goods after Priority: Thessia.
Greaves - Found during Priority: Cerberus Headquarters.
Terminus Armor[]
Set - Sold at Batarian State Arms after Priority: Palaven.
Umbra Visor[]
Helmet - Acquired during Priority: Thessia.
Assault Rifles[]
M-7 Lancer  - Acquired on the tram into the vault during the Citadel Archives: Escape.
M-8 Avenger - Acquired at the end of Prologue: Earth, near the comm station.
M-15 Vindicator - Acquired at the end of the tram station in Priority: Mars, in a closet to the back left.
M-37 Falcon - At the start of Priority: Cerberus Headquarters, after launching the fighter into the wall, the weapon can be found between the debris.
M-55 Argus - Bonus weapon for pre-ordering Mass Effect 3. If Mass Effect 3: Leviathan is installed (included in LE), it can be found on Despoina: Leviathan in the area straight down the shuttle.
M-76 Revenant - In Priority: The Citadel II, in a bathroom during the first part of the level, located three rooms after meeting Bailey on the left.
M-96 Mattock - In Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation, after you watch the student being gunned down, go to the door to your right from where you enter. When you enter this new area, you should see a couch in front of you. This gun is lying on its right side. In addition, in the same mission, you can find this gun again in a room that is unlocked if you completed the Mass Effect 2 DLC Project Overlord (included in LE) and made a Paragon decision at the end.
M-99 Saber - In Priority: Horizon, in one of the closed husk pods. Opening the pods requires overriding the controls at a terminal in the same hall.
Chakram Launcher - Requires completing the Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning demo and linking the Origin account to the game. Available after installing Mass Effect 3: Omega DLC (included in LE). When you reach T-section during the Omega: Mines, turn right, then right once more, and it's against the wall.
Geth Pulse Rifle - On a crate before the Operations Center on Priority: Geth Dreadnought.
N7 Valkyrie - Part of a bonus item pack for pre-ordering from certain distributors. Also found just after meeting Nyreen Kandros during the beginning part of the Mass Effect 3: Omega DLC (included in LE).
Particle Rifle - Acquired at the conclusion of Priority: Eden Prime.
Phaeston - On a dead Turian soldier early in Tuchanka: Turian Platoon. Also found by the door after meeting the talon leader during Omega: Aria T'Loak (Mass Effect 3). Note:  Only appears if you have not acquired it from Tuchanka: Turian Platoon and have Mass Effect 3: Omega DLC (included in LE) installed.
Heavy Pistols[]
M-3 Predator - Acquired automatically at the beginning of Prologue: Earth.
M-5 Phalanx - In Priority: Tuchanka, in the first area right before the battle with the Reaper.
M-6 Carnifex - In Arrae: Ex-Cerberus Scientists, after you exit the building to repair the antenna.
M-11 Suppressor -  Automatically added at the start of the Mass Effect 3: Citadel mission Citadel Wards: Ambush (included in LE).
M-77 Paladin - Sold at Spectre Requisitions on the Citadel after Priority: Mars.
M-358 Talon - Can be acquired during Priority: The Citadel II. The weapon is in a locked room right before reaching the Executor's office. The door can be opened via a terminal in one of the rooms in the same area.
Arc Pistol - Tali'Zorah nar Rayya or Admiral Daro'Xen vas Moreh puts this weapon right in front of you during a cutscene at the start of Priority: Geth Dreadnought.
N7 Eagle - Part of the additional weapons package for purchasing the Mass Effect 3: N7 Collector's Edition Pack (included in LE).
Scorpion - In Priority: Sur'Kesh, after reaching the second quarantine checkpoint you will need to access a power terminal. In the same red room as the power terminal, on the wall opposite of the terminal, you will find this pistol lying on the ground.
Shotguns[]
M-11 Wraith - Sold at Spectre Requisitions after Priority: Mars.
M-22 Eviscerator - In Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation, after you watch a student being gunned down, head into the room he came from (it is to the left from where you entered.) To your left as you enter this new room is a couch; the shotgun is lying atop of it.
M-23 Katana - Around the corner after exiting the sterilization room Priority: Mars.
M-27 Scimitar - In Priority: Palaven, at the other end of the first base from where you first enter, to the left near a gate, behind a barrier next to an Assault Rifle Piercing Mod.
M-300 Claymore - In Attican Traverse: Krogan Team, in the container right at the start of the mission.
AT-12 Raider - Bonus weapon for pre-ordering Mass Effect 3 over Origin. If Mass Effect 3: Leviathan is installed (included in LE), it can be found on Namakli: Leviathan on a dead body in front of the structure the first Cannibals encountered came from.
Disciple - In Kallini: Ardat-Yakshi Monastery, in the room after you first talk to Samara and her daughter.
Geth Plasma Shotgun - In Priority: Rannoch, in the room before opening the blast doors.
Graal Spike Thrower - In Priority: Tuchanka, as you first exit the tanks the weapon is leaning against a railing next to a Krogan Scout.
N7 Crusader - Part of the additional weapons package for purchasing the Mass Effect 3: N7 Collector's Edition Pack (included in LE).
Sniper Rifles[]
M-13 Raptor - In Priority: Sur'Kesh, in the area of the second quarantine checkpoint, head straight onwards from the entrance until you hit the wall. To your right, this sniper rifle is lying atop of a bench near a corpse.
M-29 Incisor - In Tuchanka: Bomb, after clearing the first field, the weapon can be found on the left hand side of a ramp leading to the next area.
M-90 Indra - Available via code from Alienware preorders or the Firefight Pack (included in LE).
M-92 Mantis - Located near the dead soldier seen after getting off the shuttle on Priority: Mars. If not picked up here it can also be found on a dead solder before entering the tram car.
M-97 Viper - In Priority: Palaven, in the middle of the first base on some crates, near a datapad.
M-98 Widow - In Priority: Thessia, about half way through the mission, on the perch the asari sniper stands on.
Black Widow - Sold at Spectre Requisitions after Priority: Mars.
Javelin - In Rannoch: Admiral Koris, after encountering the first group of geth, found along the path near a trip mine.
N7 Valiant - Distributed as a bonus item with the Mass Effect 3: N7 Collector's Edition Pack (included in LE).
Submachine Guns[]
M-4 Shuriken - Located near console before going back outside the first time in Priority: Mars.
M-9 Tempest - Located near the first escape pod next to the dead turians in Tuchanka: Turian Platoon.
M-12 Locust - Located in the next room after repairing the console on a table in the middle of the lab in Priority: Horizon.
M-25 Hornet - In Priority: The Citadel II, on a dead Cerberus soldier after exiting the elevator.
N7 Hurricane - Part of the additional weapons in the Mass Effect 3: N7 Collector's Edition Pack (included in LE).
Weapon Mods[]
The following is a list of all weapon mods. For the sake of organization, numbers 1-3 are found during missions while 4 and 5 are found in stores. You may purchase store mods before finding the mods during missions. However, a (2) marked next to the second store purchased mod indicates that it will only appear in that store after the previous one is purchased. The first store mod costs 4000 credits, and the second costs 6000 (before discounts and markups).

Assault Rifle Mods[]
Assault Rifle Extended Barrel[]
Priority: Sur'Kesh - After the first cutscene with the female krogan Eve, turn around and head up the stairs. Between the two doors, on a shelf along the wall, is this mod.
Priority: Tuchanka
Priority: Thessia
Cipritine Armory
Batarian State Arms (2)
Assault Rifle High-Velocity Barrel[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Omega

Omega: The Invasion of Omega
Omega: Talon Territory
Omega: The Mines
Harrot's Emporium
Harrot's Emporium (2)
Assault Rifle Magazine Upgrade[]
Priority: Palaven - In the airfield after you leave General Corinthus' base a second time, this is located near the center of the area alongside some thermal clips.
Arrae: Ex-Cerberus Scientists
Rannoch: Admiral Koris
Kassa Fabrication
Batarian State Arms (2)
Assault Rifle Omni-Blade[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Leviathan (included in LE)

Citadel: Leviathan II - In the requisitions locker, only available after Mahavid: Leviathan.
Namakli: Leviathan
Despoina: Leviathan
Batarian State Arms
Cipritine Armory (2)
Assault Rifle Piercing Mod[]
Priority: Palaven - At the other end of the first base from where you first enter, to the left near a gate, behind a barrier next to an M-27 Scimitar.
Priority: The Citadel II - After leaving Bailey, near a med-kit.
Priority: Rannoch
Batarian State Arms
Kassa Fabrication (2)
Assault Rifle Precision Scope[]
Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation - This is located upstairs on one of the consoles after the first fight with an Atlas.
Kallini: Ardat-Yakshi Monastery
Priority: Geth Dreadnought
Cipritine Armory
Spectre Requisitions (2)
Assault Rifle Stability Damper[]
Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation - Take a right at the sign that reads 'Ascension Wing' and use the door. In the area you enter, climb over the barrier to your right and head up the stairs. This mod is located near the top in front of the closed door.
Kallini: Ardat-Yakshi Monastery - At the beginning on the left, just outside the monastery entrance.
Priority: Rannoch
Kassa Fabrication
Cipritine Armory (2)
Assault Rifle Thermal Scope[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Citadel (included in LE)

Citadel Docks: Retake the Normandy
Citadel Arena: Unusual Scores - Reward for completing third and final requested battle.
Beat the high score on the Shattered Eezo game at the Castle Arcade.
Cipritine Armory
Spectre Requisitions (2)
Assault Rifle Ultralight Materials[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Citadel (included in LE)

Citadel Wards: Ambush
Citadel Archives: Escape
Grand Prize in the Claw Game at Castle Arcade.
Aegohr Munitions
Spectre Requisitions (2)
Heavy Pistol Mods[]
Pistol Cranial Trauma System[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Leviathan (included in LE)

Citadel: Leviathan I - On the balcony outside of the lab.
Mahavid: Leviathan - On the catwalks leading to the mines.
Despoina: Leviathan - On the port side of the shipwreck, beginning half of the wreck.
Nos Astra Sporting Goods
Kassa Fabrication (2)
Pistol Heavy Barrel[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Omega (included in LE)

Omega: The Invasion of Omega
Omega: The Mines
Omega: The Assault on Afterlife
Harrot's Emporium
Harrot's Emporium (2)
Pistol High-Caliber Barrel[]
Priority: Sur'Kesh - After clearing the first outdoor checkpoint, walk to the overhang ahead and move to the left; when you encounter the next group of enemies, hug the left wall from where you entered. This mod will be waiting on a shelf against the left wall.
Attican Traverse: The Rachni
Priority: The Citadel II
Elkoss Combine Arsenal Supplies
Aegohr Munitions (2)
Pistol Magazine Upgrade[]
Priority: Palaven - Between General Corinthus' tent and a tent with a workbench, Pistol Piercing Mod, Armax Arsenal Shoulders, and a workbench, this mod will be atop of a crate next to a data pad.
N7: Cerberus Fighter Base
Priority: Tuchanka
Kassa Fabrication
Elkoss Combine Arsenal Supplies (2) after Priority: Rannoch
Pistol Melee Stunner[]
Tuchanka: Bomb
Priority: Tuchanka
Kallini: Ardat-Yakshi Monastery
Kassa Fabrication
Nos Astra Sporting Goods (2) after Priority: Thessia
Pistol Piercing Mod[]
Priority: Palaven - In a tent adjacent to General Corinthus in the vicinity of a weapon bench and Armax Arsenal Shoulders.
Attican Traverse: The Rachni
Priority: The Citadel II
Kassa Fabrication
Aegohr Munitions (2)
Pistol Power Magnifier[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Citadel (included in LE)

Citadel Wards: Ambush
Grand Prize in the Claw Game at Castle Arcade.
Citadel Arena: Unusual Scores - Reward for completing second requested battle.
Nos Astra Sporting Goods
Spectre Requisitions (2)
Pistol Scope[]
Priority: Sur'Kesh - After reaching the second outdoor quarantine checkpoint, head left from the initial exit hugging the left wall. This mod can be found atop of a desk perpendicular to the left wall.
Tuchanka: Bomb
Priority: Horizon
Aegohr Munitions
Nos Astra Sporting Goods (2) after Priority: Thessia
Pistol Ultralight Materials[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Leviathan (included in LE)

Citadel: Leviathan I - On the balcony outside of the lab.
Mahavid: Leviathan - In the Crew Quarters of the facility.
Despoina: Leviathan - On the port side of the second half of the shipwreck.
Elkoss Combine Arsenal Supplies
N/A
Shotgun Mods[]
Shotgun Blade Attachment[]
Priority: Sur'Kesh - After encountering the first group of enemies, head towards the wall to the right in an open alcove. This mod will be waiting on a shelf against the wall.
Tuchanka: Bomb
Priority: Horizon
Batarian State Arms
Kassa Fabrication (2)
Shotgun High Caliber Barrel[]
Priority: Mars - In the decontamination room.
Arrae: Ex-Cerberus Scientists - In the main hub on the second floor.
Priority: Thessia - Balcony above Broken Shotgun (3000 credits) opposite M-98 Widow pickup, to the right of attacking Reaper forces, use the debris to climb up.
Batarian State Arms
Spectre Requisitions (2) after Priority: The Citadel II
Shotgun High-Velocity Barrel[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Omega (included in LE)

Omega: The Invasion of Omega
Omega: Talon Territory
Omega: The Assault on Afterlife
Harrot's Emporium
Harrot's Emporium (2)
Shotgun Omni-Blade[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Omega (included in LE)

Omega: Talon Territory
Omega: The Mines
Omega: The Assault on Afterlife
Harrot's Emporium
Harrot's Emporium (2)
Shotgun Shredder Mod[]
Priority: Mars - At the back of the tram station, right before the Archives.
Attican Traverse: The Rachni
Rannoch: Admiral Koris
Elkoss Combine Arsenal Supplies
Batarian State Arms (2)
Shotgun Smart Choke[]
Tuchanka: Turian Platoon
Priority: Tuchanka
Priority: Geth Dreadnought
Batarian State Arms
Elkoss Combine Arsenal Supplies (2) after Priority: Rannoch
Shotgun Spare Thermal Clip[]
Priority: Sur'Kesh - In the area where the fire covers the hallway, you must vault over to the left to get around.
Attican Traverse: The Rachni
Arrae: Ex-Cerberus Scientists
Kassa Fabrication
Elkoss Combine Arsenal Supplies (2) after Priority: Rannoch
Shotgun Ultralight Materials[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Citadel (included in LE)

Citadel Archives: Escape
Citadel Docks: Retake the Normandy
Beat the high score on the Relay Defense game at the Castle Arcade.
Aegohr Munitions
Spectre Requisitions (2)
Sniper Rifle Mods[]
Sniper Rifle Concentration Mod[]
Priority: Mars - To the left of the tram controls.
Tuchanka: Bomb
Priority: Thessia
Kanala Exports
Spectre Requisitions (2)
Sniper Rifle Enhanced Scope[]
Priority: Palaven - In Tarquin Victus' camp, head all the way to the left from the entrance. After hitting the other end, to your right there will be a tent. This mod will be lying in front of the tent next to a medkit. Get it before defeating all enemies, as the mission will end immediately after the last enemy falls.
N7: Cerberus Lab - In the room that the ramp to the left leads to, you can find this mod tucked into the corner on your left after you have entered the room.
Priority: Geth Dreadnought
Kanala Exports
Cipritine Armory (2)
Sniper Rifle Extended Barrel[]
Priority: Mars - In the decontamination room.
Tuchanka: Turian Platoon
Priority: The Citadel II
Cipritine Armory
Spectre Requisitions (2)
Sniper Rifle High-Velocity Barrel[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Citadel (included in LE)

Citadel Archives: Escape
Grand Prize in the Claw Game at Castle Arcade.
Citadel Arena: Unusual Scores - Reward for completing first requested battle.
Cipritine Armory
Spectre Requisitions (2)
Sniper Rifle Piercing Mod[]
Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation - Can only be acquired by importing a file from Mass Effect 2 in which David Archer was sent to Grissom Academy at the end of Project Overlord (included in LE).
Priority: The Citadel II
Arrae: Ex-Cerberus Scientists
Cipritine Armory
Kanala Exports (2)
Sniper Rifle Spare Thermal Clip[]
Priority: Palaven - After defeating the Brute, along the path to Tarquin Victus' camp, you will find two soldiers. This mod is next to one of them.
Tuchanka: Turian Platoon
Kallini: Ardat-Yakshi Monastery
Kassa Fabrication
Cipritine Armory (2)
Sniper Rifle Thermal Scope[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Omega (included in LE)

Omega, Talon Territory
Omega, The Mines
Omega, The Assault on Afterlife
Harrot's Emporium
Harrot's Emporium (2)
Sniper Rifle Ultralight Materials[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Citadel (included in LE)

Citadel Wards: Ambush
Citadel Archives: Escape
Citadel Docks: Retake the Normandy
Aegohr Munitions
Spectre Requisitions (2)
Submachine Gun Mods[]
SMG Heat Sink[]
Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation - After you encounter the biotic being confronted by two Cerberus soldiers, jump over the barrier into the next room. This mod is located atop one of the desks.
Tuchanka: Bomb
Priority: Thessia
Aegohr Munitions
Nos Astra Sporting Goods (2) after Priority: Thessia
SMG High Caliber Barrel[]
Attican Traverse: The Rachni
Priority: Rannoch
Arrae: Ex-Cerberus Scientists
Nos Astra Sporting Goods
Kanala Exports (2)
SMG High-Velocity Barrel[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Leviathan (included in LE)

Citadel: Leviathan I - On the balcony outside the lab.
Mahavid: Leviathan - In the storage room with Garneau's data pad.
Namakli: Leviathan - In the prefab facility near the AT-12 Raider.
Aegohr Munitions
Kanala Exports (2)
SMG Magazine Upgrade[]
Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation - In the room after the unmanned Atlas, look to the left of the entrance after entering this area. To your left is a couch, where this mod is sitting.
Tuchanka: Turian Platoon
Rannoch: Admiral Koris
Kanala Exports
Nos Astra Sporting Goods (2) after Priority: Thessia
SMG Power Magnifier[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Citadel (included in LE)

Citadel Archives: Escape
Awarded for completing Citadel Arena: Geth Challenge.
Grand Prize in the Claw Game at Castle Arcade.
Nos Astra Sporting Goods
Spectre Requisitions (2)
SMG Recoil System[]
Note:  Requires Mass Effect 3: Leviathan (included in LE)

Citadel: Leviathan I - On a shelf in the room with the plesiosaur.
Mahavid: Leviathan - On the catwalks leading to the mines.
Namakli: Leviathan - In a prefab near the elevator.
Kanala Exports
Nos Astra Sporting Goods (2)
SMG Scope[]
Priority: Mars - In the dark room requiring flashlights, to the right of the stairs near the kitchen.
Priority: Tuchanka
Priority: Geth Dreadnought
Aegohr Munitions
Kanala Exports (2)
SMG Ultralight Materials[]
Priority: Mars - At the beginning of the hallway after the flashlight room, the one that introduces Guardian enemies.
Tuchanka: Turian Platoon
Priority: Rannoch
Nos Astra Sporting Goods
Aegohr Munitions (2)
Medi-gel Upgrades[]
Capacity[]
All Medi-Gel Capacity upgrades are available from the Sirta Supplies terminal at Huerta Memorial Hospital or through the Procurement terminal aboard the Normandy (for a 10% price markup) after certain Priority missions. There are six in total:

Medi-Gel Capacity - Purchasable after Priority: Mars.
Medi-Gel Capacity I - Purchasable after Priority: Palaven.
Medi-Gel Capacity II - Purchasable after Priority: Sur'Kesh.
Medi-Gel Capacity III - Purchasable after Priority: Tuchanka.
Medi-Gel Capacity IV - Purchasable after Priority: The Citadel II.
Medi-Gel Capacity V - Granted if Dr. Chloe Michel is recruited and Citadel: Medical Supplies is completed with Charm or Intimidate. Can carry over to subsequent playthroughs with the same character.
Efficiency[]
Efficiency Increase - Granted if Dr. Karin Chakwas is recruited and Citadel: Medical Supplies is completed with Charm or Intimidate. Can carry over to subsequent playthroughs with the same character.
Intel[]
Armor Modkit - Gained after leaving the Citadel for the first time if Lair of the Shadow Broker was completed in Mass Effect 2.
Prejek Paddlefish - The Prejek Paddlefish intel can be obtained by importing a Mass Effect 2 save file where Shepard purchased the Prejek Paddle Fish, and Kelly Chambers and Shepard's fish survived. Upon meeting Kelly on the Citadel in Mass Effect 3, she will return Shepard's fish. If they survive until the game is completed and that save file is imported into New Game +, then the intel will be acquired after returning to the Normandy SR-2.
Weapon Upgrade Kit - Scan planet Verush, Harsa System, Kite's Nest Cluster after Priority: Mars.
Remains of Reaper Destroyer - Scan planet Borr, Asgard System, Exodus Cluster after Priority: Mars.
Advanced Biotic Implants - Scan planet Metaponto, Aquila System, Ismar Frontier Cluster, given by passing by a salarian in Huerta Memorial Hospital after Priority: Sur'Kesh.
Improved Geth Resistors - You will receive this inside the Geth Consensus in Rannoch: Geth Fighter Squadrons.
Miniaturized Armor Capacitors - You will receive this inside the Geth Consensus in Rannoch: Geth Fighter Squadrons.
Intel from Battle of Arcturus - Scan Arcturus Station, Arcturus System, Arcturus Stream Cluster.
Gallae's Electronic Signature - Kallini: Ardat-Yakshi Monastery, to the left in a small office in the very first pitch black room after descending into the monastery.
Intact Reaper Weapon - Scan planet Trategos, Pelion System, Nimbus Cluster.
Volus Intelligence Archives - Scan the planet Oma Ker, Nura System, Aethon Cluster.
Research Data From Pragia - Scan the planet Pragia, Dakka System, Nubian Expanse Cluster.
Med Bay Surgery - Complete Citadel: Medical Supplies.
Citadel Mission Items[]
Pillars of Strength - Scan the planet Khar'shan, Harsa System, Kite's Nest Cluster after Priority: Mars.
Alien Medi-Gel Formula - Planet Sanctum, Decoris System, Sigurd's Cradle Cluster. During N7: Cerberus Lab, this is found in the middle of the area on a computer in a small alcove.
Banner of the 1st Regiment - Scan the planet Digeris, Castellus System, Apien Crest Cluster after Priority: Mars.
Prothean Obelisk - Scan the planet Talis Fia, Urla Rast System, Shrike Abyssal Cluster.
Biotic Amp Interfaces - Space Station Jon Grissom Academy, Vetus System, Petra Nebula Cluster. During Grissom Academy: Emergency Evacuation, after you meet Octavia, the woman who is shielding herself and other students from some Cerberus Troopers, continue onwards past the next door to the objective. In the next area, before the door, there is a console from which you can download this item.
Old Grid Schematics - Planet Tuchanka, Aralakh System, Krogan DMZ Cluster. During N7: Cerberus Attack, go into the control room for the cannon (it is the most elevated position on the map.) On the other desk from where you can control the cannon, search the hologram to pick up this item.
Dying Krogan Message - Planet Utukku, Mulla Xul System, Ninmah Cluster. During Attican Traverse: Krogan Team, after passing through the first door blocked off by a shield generator, the roof will cave-in. Immediately after, hug the left wall and burn through the sections blocked off by webbing. This will be found behind one of the sections, on a Krogan Corpse.
Hesperia-Period Statue - Scan the planet Polissa, Vernio System, Athena Nebula Cluster.
Dog Tag - Planet Benning, Euler System , Arcturus Stream Cluster. During N7: Cerberus Abductions, look for the Dog Tag which is located in the courtyard opposite building number 27, next to the second closest square column to building number 22.
Cerberus Automated Turret Schematics - Planet Tuchanka, Aralakh System, Krogan DMZ Cluster. During Tuchanka: Bomb, this item is found in some crates before meeting with Lieutenant Victus.
Cerberus Ciphers - Planet Ontarom, Newton System, Kepler Verge System. During N7: Communication Hub, after the 2nd objective, the terminal with Cerberus codes is on the far right.
Cerberus Turian Poison - Planet Gellix, Arrae System, Minos Wasteland Cluster. During Arrae: Ex-Cerberus Scientists, this item is found in a corner of the main room on top of a box. It looks like a microscope.
Chemical Treatment - Planet Cyone, Kypladon System, Silean Nebula Cluster. During N7: Fuel Reactors, head up to the left area at the start, on a datapad that overlooks the radiation below you.
Heating Unit Stabilizers - Planet Noveria, Pax System, Horse Head Nebula Cluster. During N7: Cerberus Fighter Base, on the opposite wall, where the first objective is located, under the ceiling.
Kakliosaur Fossil - Scan the planet Intai'sei, Phoenix System, Argos Rho Cluster.
Reaper Code Fragments - Planet Rannoch, Tikkun System, Perseus Veil Cluster. During Rannoch: Geth Fighter Squadrons, this item is found near the first infected data cluster you encounter.
Target Jamming Technology - Planet Rannoch, Tikkun System, Perseus Veil Cluster. During Rannoch: Admiral Koris, look for the Jamming Tower Data at the terminal diagonally opposite the last AA gun control.
Code of the Ancients - Scan planet Dekuuna, Phontes System, Silean Nebula Cluster.
Obelisk of Karza - Scan the moon Kopis, Hoplos System, Hades Nexus Cluster.
Prothean Sphere - Scan the planet Gei Hinnom, Sheol System, Hades Nexus Cluster.
Book of Plenix - Scan the planet Irune, Aru System, Aethon Cluster.
Prototype Components - Scan the planet Metaponto, Aquila System, Ismar Frontier Cluster.
Library of Asha - Scan the planet Carcosa, Agaiou System, Nimbus Cluster.
Rings of Alune - Scan the planet Nevos, Teyolia System, Silean Nebula Cluster.
Prothean Data Drives - Scan the planet Garvug, Paz System, Valhallan Threshold Cluster.






Mass Effect 3 Guides




Completion

Walkthrough • Morality • Search and Rescue • Equipment and Items


Classes

Adept • Engineer • Infiltrator • Sentinel • Soldier • Vanguard


Other

Squad Members • Power Combos • PC Tweaks • Interrupts • Merchants • The One and Only




