


Mass Effect Andromeda: Initiation is a novel written by N.K. Jemisin and Mac Walters, published by Titan Books. Released on November 28, 2017, it is the second of the planned novels set in the Mass Effect: Andromeda universe.
The novel is also available in audiobook form. It is narrated by Fryda Wolff, the voice of female Pathfinder Ryder and Sara Ryder.[1]

Contents

1 Description
2 Story
3 Trivia
4 References


Description[]
An original novel written by Hugo Award-winning author N. K. Jemisin and Mass Effect creative director Mac Walters
Lieutenant Cora Harper joined the Systems Alliance to develop and enhance her powerful biotic talents. She was assigned to the asari commando unit Talein's Daughters, where she honed her abilities to become a skilled and deadly huntress.
Returning to Earth, Cora finds herself a stranger among other humans, and joins the Andromeda Initiative as Alec Ryder's second-in-command. The mission will send 100,000 colonists on a one-way, 600-year-long journey into the unknown. When essential—and dangerous—tech is stolen, Cora is assigned to recover it before it can be used against the Initiative, and end the mission before it can begin.
Copyright © 2017 Electronic Arts Inc. EA, the EA logo, Mass Effect, Mass Effect: Andromeda, BioWare and the BioWare logo are trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc.All Rights Reserved.[2]

Story[]
See the Storyline for plot details.

Trivia[]
An anti-Andromeda Initiative stinger run by Khalisah al-Jilani supposedly airs on a Sunday, December 27, 2184. The date in question is actually a Monday.
Ryder misremembers Quiet Eddy's location as Kepler Verge instead of the Hades Nexus.
Fehl Prime's disappearance becomes known to the general public through news reports dated December 29, 2184, although Mass Effect: Paragon Lost depicts the surrounding events as happening at least two years after Commander Shepard's disappearance in 2183.
References[]

↑ Mass Effect: Initiation Audiobook – Unabridged

↑ https://titanbooks.com/8751-mass-effect-initiation/




Mass Effect Series


Games

Mass Effect (CE, ♫) • Mass Effect 2 (CE, ♫) • Mass Effect 3 (CE, ♫, Multiplayer) • Trilogy • Mass Effect Legendary EditionMass Effect: Andromeda (DE, ♫, Multiplayer)


Mobile Games and Apps

Mass Effect Galaxy • Mass Effect: Infiltrator • Mass Effect 3: Datapad • Mass Effect: Andromeda APEX HQ


Downloadable Content

Mass Effect • Mass Effect 2 • Mass Effect 3


Books

Revelation •  Ascension • Retribution • Deception • Nexus Uprising • Initiation • Annihilation


Comics

Redemption •  Evolution • Invasion • Homeworlds • Foundation • Incursion • InquisitionConviction • Blasto: Eternity is Forever • He Who Laughs Best • Library Edition • Discovery


Films

Paragon Lost (♫) • Mass Effect





