


These writings belong to Matriarch Dilinaga. It looks like there are many other writings to be found scattered across the galaxy.

Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Locations
2.2 Mass Effect 3 Consequences


3 Trivia


Acquisition[]
This assignment appears in the Journal after the first piece of asari writing is found. Though there are 16 total, only ten need to be found to complete the assignment.

Walkthrough[]
Interstellar colonization sparked a golden age of learning and cultural advancement for the asari. During this time, the Matriarchs became obsessed with achieving 'ultimate knowledge'. To that end, a small but dedicated group chose to leave Thessia hoping to find greater wisdom and true enlightenment.
Within a span of a few years, twenty-eight Matriarchs left Thessia with no destination in mind and no plan to return. Only six were ever heard from again. Of the other twenty-two, only Matriarch Dilinaga's remains were discovered, along with several writings made during her journey.
The writings instantly became the subject of intense study and discussion. Hundreds of anthropologists and historians analyzed the writings and theorized on their meaning and importance to the asari race. For several generations, these writings were kept at Thessia Guildhall, the center for asari learning and research. Less than a century ago, these were finally made available to the public. Since arriving at the Farinah Museum, the Dilinaga exhibit has become one of most popular historical attractions on Thessia.

Locations[]
If JavaScript is enabled, the columns may be sorted by clicking on the up/down arrow icons in the column headers.



Cluster

System

Planet

Access


Argos Rho

Phoenix

Tuntau

land


Armstrong Nebula

Gagarin

Junthor

survey


Armstrong Nebula

Grissom

Solcrum

land


Armstrong Nebula

Hong

Matar

survey


Artemis Tau

Macedon

Porolan

survey


Artemis Tau

Macedon

Sharjila

land


Gemini Sigma

Han

Paravin

survey


Hades Gamma

Antaeus

Ploba

survey


Hades Gamma

Cacus

Chohe

land (×3)


Hades Gamma

Plutus

Nonuel

land


Horse Head Nebula

Pax

Veles

survey


Kepler Verge

Newton

Klencory

survey


Maroon Sea

Vostok

Pataiton

survey


Styx Theta

Acheron

Altahe

land


Total

16

Mass Effect 3 Consequences[]
If the Commander obtained at least 10 of Matriarch Dilinaga's Writings during the course of Mass Effect, along with having retrieved Gavin Hossle's data on Feros and having purchased the Elkoss Combine armory license, the schematics can be analyzed by Conrad Verner if he was interacted with and survived in both previous games. Conrad's dark energy dissertation will have an additional 5 point bonus towards war assets.

Trivia[]
The background information on these writings can be found in the game files, but does not appear in-game.
In Mass Effect 2, Captain Bailey mentions that there is a Dilinaga Concert Hall in the Citadel's Tayseri Ward. Even two years after Saren's attack, it remains closed for repairs due to heavy impact damage from Sovereign's debris.

Series Navigation




Assignment Index

Next Assignment →




Assignments

UNC: Collection Complete




