




Mavigon

Region
Milky Way / Gemini Sigma / Han





Planet View


Orbital Distance
12.125 AU


Orbital Period
42.3 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.996


Radius
4,906 km


Day Length
52.0 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.82 atm


Surface Temp
−124 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.8 g


Mass
0.47 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Gemini Sigma / Han System /  Third planet

Prerequisite: UNC: Hostile Takeover (Mass Effect)

Prerequisite: Priority: Sur'Kesh (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Assignments
3 Points of Interest
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Lifeforms
6 Search and Rescue
7 Properties
8 Trivia


Description
WARNING: Level 2 Cold Hazard
Mavigon is a small rock and ice planet with a thin atmosphere of ammonia and methane. The surface is frozen, and mainly composed of tin with deposits of potassium.
The planet has rudimentary ammonia-based life, mainly concentrated around geothermal vents deep underground. Severe storm cycles are common; due to limited visibility, navigation may be difficult.

Assignments
Assignment: UNC: Hostile Takeover
Collection: UNC: Locate Signs of Battle: Salarian ID Tag ×1 (Captain Stranaka)
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals: Heavy Metal ×1 / Light Metal ×1
Points of Interest



Location

Appearance

Description


1

Initial

Syndicate hideout (UNC: Hostile Takeover). Contains three Alliance Heavy Turrets.


2

Initial

Engine debris (salvage, requires medium Electronics.)


3

Unmarked

Mummified salarian (box) (UNC: Locate Signs of Battle)

“You discovered several small artifacts. Among them is an identification tag belonging to Captain Stranaka, one of the salarian soldiers charged with hunting down the League of One.”




4

Unmarked

Abandoned camp (salvage unlocked crate and hardened crate (hard Decryption).)


Mineral Deposits

Main article: UNC: Valuable Minerals


Location

Element

Class


1

Gold

Heavy


2

Cobalt

Light


Lifeforms
Mercenaries
Mercenary Snipers
Crime Boss
Search and Rescue
Main article: Search and Rescue
Salvage - 10,000 credits
Properties
The operational area on Mavigon features a heavy snowstorm, limiting long-range visibility. While much of the terrain can be traversed on fairly even terrain, some areas of interest would require the Mako traversing up and down sheer elevations to reach.

Trivia
The world's in-game description text in Mass Effect used to say that the cold hazard is level 1, but when actually exploring planetside, the cold hazard is level 2. This is despite Mavigon being warmer than Xawin, which is level 1. Given that Mavigon has a strong blizzard at the operational area, as opposed to Xawin, which is mostly clear skies, this weather difference may be the reason for the hazard's strength. The issue has been rectified in Mass Effect Legendary Edition with the text now reflecting the actual hazard level.



