









May O'Connell




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Armament
Pistol


Abilities
Unknown


Health
Low


Shields
Very Low


Locations
Feros


May O'Connell is a colonist at Zhu's Hope, on Feros. 






“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




May O'Connell is in charge of supplying power to the colony after a recent geth attack, but the generator she is working on has failed. If asked, she requests Shepard to find new power cells for the generator. If Shepard offers to acquire some spare power cells from the SSV Normandy, May points out, dryly, that the generator is an old model and the Normandy's power cells are too sophisticated for it.
May O'Connell is, like the rest of the colonists at Zhu's Hope, under the influence of the ancient Thorian. As Shepard has the option of killing or knocking her out like the others, killing her results in the colony failing to secure a power supply if she wasn't given the power cells prior to her behavioral change.
If she survived the assault on Zhu's Hope, she's relieved that the Thorian's gone and she's able to think again without pain. If too many colonists died, she thinks fixing the generator is moot since whoever's still alive will be leaving anyway.

Trivia[]
In addition to voicing O'Connell, Jennifer Hale also provides the voice for female Commander Shepard. In other BioWare games, Hale has also provided the voices for Bastila Shan in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic as well as Satele Shan and the Female Republic Trooper in Star Wars: The Old Republic. She would later go on to voice Krem in Dragon Age: Inquisition.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





