


The Memorial Gardens is the walkway connecting the Docks to the interior of Aya's capital city. It is so-called because many of the plants decorating it came from places the angara lost to the kett, and they're often the only things left to remember these places by.
Layout[]
The location covers the area beyond the door to the Docks, up to the walkway itself. A decorative mural greets visitors coming in from the Docks, and there's also a Holographic Message Terminal for local news and advisories. The walkway is lined with lush greenery on both sides: the skyward side is also lined with a bunch of benches for citizen use, while on the opposite side are some holographic spherical lights.
The small area beyond the walkway and before the Marketplace isn't technically counted as part of the gardens, though the resident horticulturist tends to a floral arrangement there that has a formal dedication to the garden.

Missions[]
Additional Tasks
Task: Local Cuisine
Task: The Witnesses
Terminals and Datapads[]



Mural

Translated from Shelesh:

A team of artists from each of our homeworlds—Aya, Voeld, and Havarl—worked together to create this mural. It depicts the centuries of hardship we endured as a result of the Scourge, but also the reunion of our people to build a strong, resilient society.









The Resistance Needs Volunteers

Translated from Shelesh:

The kett have felt the power of the Resistance, and they know their end is coming. Our victories on Voeld are only the beginning of what we can achieve, but we can't defeat the enemy without your help. If you're tired of living in fear, if you believe we were meant for something greater than slavery, if you're willing to stand up and fight: you'll find a new family in the Resistance. We'll train you to strike back at the kett and reclaim what is ours.


The Resistance defends the future of all angara. Join us.







Memorial Garden Dedication

Translated from Shelesh:

We rose from nothing to touch the stars. Made homes on many worlds.
Do not mourn what the kett stole from us. Celebrate what still remains.
All things reach their end and make way for new life to fill the void.
The worlds and people we lose will return in time. Family grows forever.


We dedicate this garden to those who are not here with us, but who will one day return. This place is for them.





