




Menae

Region
Milky Way / Apien Crest / Trebia / Palaven





Moon View


Orbital Distance
Classified


Orbital Period
33 Earth Days


Radius
Classified


Day Length
Classified


Atm. Pressure
Classified


Surface Temp
Classified


Surface Gravity
Classified


Location: Milky Way / Apien Crest / Trebia System / Palaven

Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Mission
4 Trivia


Description[]
Palaven's largest moon has been shrouded in secrecy since the dawn of the turian space age. During the Krogan Rebellions, the Hierarchy classified nearly all data on Menae, and its sister moon Nanus, because they feared the krogan could use the moons as weapons by smashing them into Palaven's surface. However, some information has leaked out. Images of turian bases where personnel walk without enviro-suits indicate advanced infrastructure--likely a network of subterranean tunnels with powerful mass effect field generators that retain heat and atmosphere over swaths of the surface.
The Reapers' plans for bombarding the bases were met with fierce resistance by the turian fleet and the moon's antiaerospace defenses. With their easy victory stalled, the Reapers deployed a variety of ground units to take the bases one at a time.
The turians have the advantage on the moon, but the Reapers have the patience to slowly grind them down. With every base captured, the Reapers deny the turian fleet another place to repair or refuel.

Codex Entry[]





Audio: Menaehttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Codex_-_Menae.ogg

Menae is one of two moons orbiting the turian homeworld of Palaven. The Turian Hierarchy put Menae in the hands of the military soon after their spacecraft first landed on the moon, immediately halting civilian research and exploration. Menae's geological composition and specifications have been classified ever since. These days, a few active naval bases dot the moonscape, as well as infantry installations focused on extreme survival training.
The mystery of Menae is a lasting fascination for many turian citizens. Speculation about its presumably rare and valuable resources has become a common plot point in vids, novels, and even poetry for young turians.


Mission[]
Mission: Priority: Palaven
Trivia[]
In Greek mythology, the Menae were the goddesses of the lunar months.
Menae is a mission location in the N7 HQ Galaxy at War mini-game for Mass Effect 3.
In Mass Effect: Andromeda, the turian squadmate Vetra Nyx is suggested as having been involved in an attempt at stealing sensitive military information from a base on Menae.



