









Merc Leader




Race
Human


Type
Organic,Biotic


Faction
Eclipse


Armament
M-15 Vindicator


Abilities
 Warp Barrier Tech Armor


Health
Moderate


Barrier
Moderate


Locations
Illium


The Merc Leader is an Eclipse mercenary that is encountered during the Miranda's loyalty mission. He takes orders from Captain Enyala.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




After Miranda meets with her contact on Illium, she takes a car with Commander Shepard down into the cargo areas. At the same time, the A-61 Mantis Gunships led by the merc leader are dropping troops into the cargo areas. When the car is in view, the Eclipse mercs open fire on the crew. Once the Merc Leader confirms that Miranda is in the car, he orders his men to hold fire. Upon confronting Miranda, he explains that he was ordered to give Miranda one chance to walk away before things get ugly. Shepard can snap the Merc Leader's neck while Miranda shoots an overhead fuel container taking out his mercs, or allow him to continue talking, which results in him being killed by Miranda and a firefight with his troops.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
The Merc Leader has a M-15 Vindicator and various biotic powers.
Defensive
The Merc Leader has access to the Tech Armor ability, and possesses moderate barriers and health.

Tactics[]
The Merc Leader is essentially an Eclipse Vanguard. He has barriers and health and is equipped with an assault rifle. The Merc Leader also uses his biotics to deal damage. It is recommended that you deal with the Merc Leader first before you take out the other Eclipse mercs.



Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




