







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.






Meriweather

 







Faction
Outlaws


Weapons / Attacks
Sandstorm


Abilities
–


Health
Normal


Shields
–


Weak Points
Head


Meriweather is the leader of a gang of outlaws. She operates a smuggling ring on Kadara, and she has a base of operations in H-047c. She holds a grudge against Vetra Nyx for helping steal away some of her crew.

Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect: Andromeda
3 Capabilities
4 Tactics


Background[]
Back in the Milky Way Meriweather was a military surveyor who fought in the Skyllian Blitz. Following the Nexus Uprising she established herself on Kadara, attracting workers like Amos Galloway under her banner. She also made friends with local angara who told her of an abandoned mine in Crater: Idriya that she could use.
Meriweather worked for Sloane Kelly's Outcasts, running guns and drugs for them. She wanted to strike out on her own, and the abandoned mine provided her an opportunity. After making the place livable, her crew carved out a niche for things even Sloane wouldn't touch. However, she developed a reputation for being a loose cannon, and also eventually alienated some of her workers. 
Meriweather wasn't the kind of boss who would simply let people go, so they went to great pains to hide from her. On suggestion from the Outcasts, however, who determined that her missing people had information Sloane wanted, Meriweather expended some effort hunting the deserters down. She placed them all in a secure location on her base at H-047c, hoping to draw out Vetra Nyx, whom she learned was responsible for making her people disappear.
Despite being unaffiliated with the Collective, Meriweather apparently knows the Charlatan's true identity according to Collective agent Octans. Meriweather is ambitious, though she's still considered minor league by the major players for the time being.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Following Vetra's successful entrapment on H-047c, Meriweather becomes aware of security breaches in her base, though how quickly that happens depends on Sid's participation. Eventually Meriweather wises up and locates Sid to take her hostage. If Sid helped Pathfinder Ryder's team gain advantages as they progress through the base, Meriweather becomes aware of the prisoner escape and taunts Vetra over comms that she has Sid.
When Ryder and Vetra reach Meriweather, she shows them she has Sid in one hand and a primed grenade in another, betting that Ryder wouldn't let it explode with Sid nearby. She's willing to take Sid down given her hacking prowess; Meriweather doesn't even consider her a child as she's big. If asked if she sought a life in Heleus to be a mere criminal, Meriweather simply replies there's no right or wrong anymore, only survival.
Whichever way the standoff is resolved, the grenade leaves her hand, starting a skirmish that neither she nor the rest of her group walk away from.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Meriweather is armed with the Sandstorm.

Defensive
Meriweather is unprotected by shields, armor, or barriers.

Tactics[]
Meriweather is essentially a named Raider and has inherited the strengths and weaknesses of the enemy type.
Meriweather can be easily killed as soon as the skirmish starts owing to having no protection of any kind. If she's allowed to live, she moves back to the topmost shuttlepad. A group of Anarchists, Agents, and Sharpshooters, all converge at her location there.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




