







The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

The Miners' Union, often simply called Union, was a criminal organization that operated on Caleston during the development of Mass Effect. While the identity of its leader is initially a secret, it is later revealed to be Throw Down's administrator Nonya Tombiri.
The Union has operated on Throw Down station for years. Until six months before the events of Mass Effect, they were seemingly in control of the whole station, notably running the gambling, smuggling and prostitution rings out of Ruushok's bar, as well as extorting the station's inhabitants. When the Cartel arrived and started wrestling for control of the refinery, tensions on the station started to rise. While the Cartel took control of the refining labs, the Union stayed in charge of the heavy machinery and its workers. Meanwhile, the head of the Union was said to remain locked up in her office in the refinery, never leaving and keeping her identity hidden.[1]
Administrator Tombiri takes advantage of Shepard's arrival to attempt to have the Cartel destroyed, by claiming they hold Liara T'Soni. She sends Shepard to work with the Union "representative" Sessa Tarrent (more accurately a mercenary), and eventually, after discovering the truth, Shepard may decide the fate of Tombiri and her Union. If Shepard leaves her in charge, the Union and its criminals continue unabated, although to the satisfaction of the Eldfell-Ashland Energy corporation, Tombiri's employers. If she is arrested or killed, the Union is essentially considered destroyed. News reports may indicate that she was allegedly apprehended or killed in relation to her links to the Cartel, thus keeping the truth about the Union hidden from the public.[2]

References[]

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav20_nonyatombiri (1), Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav20_nonyatombiri (2)

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#sp_news_vids





