



Miranda's estranged father is trying to take back her sister, Oriana. Miranda needs to go to Illium and get her sister off-world safely.

Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Preparation
3 Walkthrough

3.1 Illium
3.2 Illium Cargo Terminal
3.3 Container Transfer Area
3.4 Cargo Terminal Conveyor Two
3.5 Cargo Terminal Conveyor Three
3.6 Cargo Terminal Elevator Approach
3.7 Dock 94
3.8 Normandy
3.9 Email
3.10 Enemies
3.11 Mass Effect 3 Consequences


4 Mission Summary
5 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Horizon (mission)

Miranda's loyalty mission becomes available after completing the events on Horizon. You'll have to bring Miranda with you to Illium to be able to talk to Lanteia.

Preparation[]
Most of the enemies you'll be facing throughout the level are shielded Eclipse mercenaries including a large number of Engineers, along with a smattering of light mechs; however, a few dangerous enemies you'll encounter during the difficult final battle of the level possess barriers and even armor. 
Miranda has the tech and biotic skills of a Sentinel as well as a passive ability that grants a very useful health and damage buff to Shepard's party, but she lacks "crowd control" powers that can disable or knock down enemies (at least until this mission is completed). She also possesses no ammo power of any kind, so depending on what class Shepard is, consider bringing along a squad member that compensates for these deficiencies. If Shepard doesn't have Pull to combo with Miranda's Warp, Jacob, and Samara all can have the ability—and if Jack is loyal she can provide Warp Ammo along with Pull. Another consideration is bringing a loyal Kasumi, as her Flashbang Grenade can be useful for disabling the tech and biotic special abilities of multiple opponents at once, and Shadow Strike can be used for additional punch and distraction against tougher enemies.
Stasis can be an excellent bonus power for Shepard to help deal with the final "boss" enemies you'll encounter as with even just one point allocated Stasis can disable foes with multiple intact protection layers. Otherwise, Energy Drain is as usual an excellent general choice of bonus power that can simultaneously buff and restore Shepard's shields while removing them from enemies. Slam also deserves mention as another "one point wonder" bonus power that can disable enemies on a fast cooldown and combo with Miranda's Warp, if Warp is cast while a target is lifted by the ability.
In terms of weaponry, having the Geth Plasma Shotgun handy is great for the final battle of the mission for quickly eliminating enemy shields and barriers. The Arc Projector, M-622 Avalanche, and M-490 Blackstorm are all effective general heavy weapon options, allowing you to damage and disable groups of enemies, many of whom might be obscured by cover.

Walkthrough[]
Illium[]
When you land on Illium, EDI will message you after your conversation with the concierge, and say that Miranda’s contact is at the Eternity bar. Miranda will thank EDI and you head towards the bar. Upon meeting Lanteia, Miranda's asari contact at the Eternity Bar, it is revealed that Miranda's old childhood friend Niket, one of the few people she trusts, will be involved in the transfer. Shepard can ask Miranda if Niket is trustworthy and Miranda replies that Niket is the only person she trusts from her past life.

Illium Cargo Terminal[]

During the flight towards the cargo terminal, Miranda notices several Eclipse Gunships at the cargo area, which a cutscene then shows several Eclipse mercs, deploying from the aircraft. Miranda tells Shepard to land behind cover and the mercs. The mercs open fire, though an Eclipse Engineer, who is supposedly expecting you, orders them to cease-fire. However, the cab had been damaged from the open fire, forcing a hard landing a few meters away from the mercs. The squad exits the disabled cab and a conversation starts with the Engineer.
The Engineer informs that you have arrived too late and his captain, Enyala, is moving in on Oriana and Niket will not be helping Miranda. As an angry Miranda accuses him of lying, the Engineer gloats that their conversation has given his snipers time to take position. At this point, you have an option for a Renegade interrupt. If you choose to interrupt, Shepard will break the Engineer's neck while Miranda pulls her pistol and shoots the merc standing behind the Engineer. Shepard then glances up and fires a few shots at an overhead fuel container, which falls and explodes. Then the squad runs into cover and the fight begins. If you didn’t interrupt the Engineer, he will order his fellow mercs to attack while you and the squad are in the open. Run into cover and take out the mercs. Regardless of the course of action, you will be battling against Eclipse Troopers, Heavies, and Vanguards. 


Remain in cover while taking out the mercs and be watchful of the Heavies as they fire rockets at you. After disposing the group of mercs, move up and take cover at the right turn because there will be even more mercs there. They are using the cover to take pot shots at you, so wait until they stick out their heads and shoot them as they appear.
The moment you enter into the elevator, another cutscene plays. Miranda finds an Eclipse radio and taps into their communications. Miranda then confides to Shepard that though Oriana is her genetic twin, she took her when she was just a baby. She goes on to say that she was not the first child that her father created, just the first one he kept and she had left behind everything from that life except Niket. Once more, Shepard questions Niket's trustworthiness but Miranda reassures Shepard again that Niket is a trusted friend.

Container Transfer Area[]

When you enter the area, Miranda points out that since all the containers are being moved around, it will be harder to target and acquire enemies. She also warns you that some of those containers consist of explosive hazardous materials. Go into the container on your right to hack a datapad for 1,500 credits, though this container is easy to miss. Just as you reach the first conveyor belt, you will come under attack.
Use the elevated cover in the middle to your advantage and take out the enemies on the opposite side. Watch out for enemies trying to flank you, especially on the left. At times, the enemies will remain behind cover and not return fire, so get closer to take them out. Also, be wary of the explosive containers as you are shooting because the explosion can kill you if you are too close to it. After dispatching the enemies, go further down to find a med kit in a corner of a container and a submachine gun upgrade on a desk in the next container. 
As you come around the next corner you will be attacked by some Loki Mechs; just grab cover and fend them off. You can then grab 1,500 credits from the locker on the far side of the small room - note these are easily missed, so don't proceed down the hallway from where the mechs attack before picking it up.

Cargo Terminal Conveyor Two[]
Now when you move into the hallway the mechs attacked you from, a large group of mercs will attack from your right. If you jump up on the "pickup truck" and take cover there, you will be shielded from any mercs who try to flank you from the left side. Once all the enemies are down, head across the belt and search for a medi-gel upgrade on a dead merc and hack the computer in the office room for 3,000 credits. When you emerge from the office room two more enemies will spawn around the corner, including one firing rockets, so be ready.

Cargo Terminal Conveyor Three[]

When you go down the hallway to the next area, you hear Enyala over the radio ordering her troops to send everything except her personal guard to stop Shepard and the squad while she goes after Niket. As you head down the hallway, there will be more resistance around the corner. At the last conveyor before you reach the elevator to Dock 94, you will face numerous Eclipse mercs including multiple Engineers. Your squad can get finished off quite quickly by the combined firepower you're facing here, so it may be better to leave your team back out of the line of fire and only use them for power support while you move up carefully and pick off the Engineers one by one. If you have Kasumi in your party, a Flashbang Grenade can be very useful here to stun enemies out of cover, overheat their guns, and silence the flood of Incinerate bolts and Combat Drones coming your way; otherwise, you'll have to be very careful about being stunned by these abilities.
The Eclipse Heavies are more likely to flank you than the other type of mercs, but the latter will still attempt to flank you if you don’t force them to hide with suppressive fire. The Eclipse will attack in several waves from the left, so do not proceed until the coast is clear. Move over to a dip in the conveyor line and Miranda will say that it’s a way across. You can use this to flank enemies, but this is not recommended as it usually just results in them flanking you. Search the area for 3,000 credits on a security terminal and a crate of eezo. There are also 3,000 credits, which you get after hacking the pad of a dead merc in one of the crates.

Cargo Terminal Elevator Approach[]

Just as you enter this area, EDI notifies you that the mercs have disabled the elevator leading up the dock, though EDI is in the process of overriding the elevator. Take cover immediately as enemies will begin pouring out of the elevator in at least two waves, though an Engineer's Combat Drone or a Vanguard with charge can prevent the appearance of additional enemies by approaching the elevator. You can also use an appropriate heavy weapon to massacre the enemies before they get out of the elevator and spread out; again, reaching the elevator door personally should then forestall additional enemy spawns. Defeat the mercs and retrieve the power cells across the elevator and medi-gel in the medical station.
Tip: Make sure you have all of your ammo powers assigned and weapons selected how you want them before entering the elevator.
Just as you enter the elevator, a cutscene will play. You hear Enyala radioing orders to transfer the family to an Eclipse Transport. Miranda become frustrated with the possibility of Niket betraying her and smacks the elevator to speed it up.

Dock 94[]

Continuing from where the last cutscene left off, Niket looks frustrated at the asari dock official because of a security situation, referring to Shepard and the squad blasting through the terminal, and as a result, she cannot transfer anyone out. Enyala sarcastically remarks about the waste of time, but Niket reminds her that minimal impact on Oriana and the family is necessary. Shepard and the squad arrive from the elevator while the dock official tries to run, but Enyala mercilessly shoots her. Miranda confronts Niket in disbelief at how he had sold her out and a conversation ensues.
At the end of the conversation, Miranda draws out her gun, intending to shoot Niket. A Paragon interrupt allows you to stop her from killing Niket. If you interrupt, Niket will apologize but Enyala will shoot him in the back instead. Either way, Miranda biotically flings the Eclipse Captain across the room and a battle begins.


Take cover behind safe positions in the dock while holding out waves of Eclipse mercs. If you are playing as a Soldier or an Infiltrator, the sniper rifle can be useful in killing Enyala from a distance. Unless you have access to a sniper rifle, you'll want to get moving, as you will quickly be flanked by Eclipse Vanguards and Troopers, including a group led by a powerful salarian Eclipse Operative, who is essentially a well-armed and armored Engineer. Stay aware of Enyala's position at all times while you systematically mop up her soldiers; note that further Eclipse will be spawning from the elevator on the far side, the one marked "EXIT". 
This final battle can get very frustrating on harder difficulties as both Enyala and the asari Vanguard will close with you and attempt to murder you and your squad with shotguns all while an army of other mercs is shooting at you. Staying in cover where you begin the fight will usually end in disaster. A heavy weapon like the M-622 Avalanche or the Grenade Launcher can quickly eliminate the mass of mercenaries before Enyala is able to get close to you. Keep a careful eye on your squadmates' health and immediately revive them with medi-gel if they go down—keeping them up and having their abilities available can be essential to your own survival. Stasis if you have it is invaluable as it can knock Enyala or the asari Vanguard out of the fight immediately and make them easier to kill. While throwing a Combat Drone out immediately at the beginning of the battle can prevent further Eclipse from spawning by the elevator, it can also trigger them to rush your position aggressively so this is not recommended. If you want to use drones, summon them at Enyala constantly to slow her advance.
The following are two strategies that can make this fight more manageable:


Combat Strategy: Run to the right and towards the orange-colored elevator. From inside the orange-colored elevator facing out, to the right going out of the elevator there is a hall ending in a dead end. Order your squadmates to the very end of the cul-de-sac, where they can sit safely, cover your back, and support you with abilities. From inside the elevator facing out straight ahead there is a roughly L-shaped piece of cover. Head there immediately. If you are careful to stay within the crook of the "L", no enemy should advance beyond this point unless you accidentally lead them to you by stepping out too far. The exception to this is the Eclipse Vanguard, who you should take out ASAP right when you reach the cover, and then possibly Enyala (Enyala will hopefully take her time about this though, and if you're lucky she may not even advance at all). Even if she does advance on your cover position, you should be able to recharge your shields safely in the crook of the L cover while focusing her down without fear of any other enemies flanking you (the exception to this being any drones summoned by the Eclipse Operative which you should take down immediately). The last major threat after the asari are down is the Operative, but aside from the drones he summons he isn't an imminent threat, just wear him down like the others.


Alternative Strategy: There is another strategy that revolves around exploiting a glitch in the map architecture. Squadmates are expendable distractions only, they won't reliably survive so just plan on them waking up after you've cleared all hostiles. Run inside the orange-colored elevator and face out. There are two rectangular columns on either side wall of the elevator that aren't solid—it's possible to clip through them and hide inside. Enemies just stop shooting at you and even enemy drones when launched will come up to the column where you are and just wait until they die. While inside the columns, you can use powers and shoot guns with the exception of sniper rifles; something about the extended zoom of a sniper rifle causes the shot to fail. The enemy mercs will work their way up to the cover in front and to the right of the elevator doorway. The best strategy is to move out of the column, fire a weapon and use a power, and then move back into the column to recharge your shields. Every enemy can eventually be worn down, though remember that Enyala, the asari Vanguard, and the Eclipse Operative can all recharge their shielding with their Tech Armor once any armor they possess is gone, so try and disable them and kill them outright to prevent this. A final note of caution: you won't able to pick up any dropped thermal clips easily with this strategy so aim well.
After eliminating all opposition, Miranda tells you to hurry up so that you can intercept Oriana to ensure her safety. Search the far right of the dock for medi-gel, acquire 3,000 credits from a computer, and retrieve a lost locket for an asari near the dock's exit, which starts a final cutscene to end the mission.
Upon reaching at the designated floor, you will see Oriana with her family from a distance. Miranda is happy that Oriana can live a normal life. Miranda decides to leave, but you can convince her to meet Oriana and her family or respect Miranda's decision to leave them be.

Normandy[]

Back on the Normandy, you can approach Miranda to find out about the meeting she had with Oriana in Illium. Miranda says that Oriana’s family was shocked from learning the truth but Oriana adjusted quickly to that knowledge. Miranda is happy to know that Oriana has a normal life in comparison to her own life.
If you have already completed Jack's loyalty mission, when you return to the Normandy, Joker will page Shepard over the PA saying that Jack just went to have a talk with Miranda. When Shepard decides to handle it, Joker jokingly replies, “Take pictures.” Shepard arrives in Miranda’s office only to find Jack flinging a chair across the room and Shepard tells them both to knock it off. Jack is furious that Miranda will not admit to what Cerberus did to her was wrong. Unless you have enough Paragon or Renegade points, you cannot end this situation without alienating one or the other crew member. If you have enough points, then you earn the loyalty of both crew members and can continue any relationships that you have started. If you fail, then you will lose out on any relationships with either one and her loyalty, depending on whom you alienate.

See also: Loyalty#Confrontations
The amount of morality points required also varies during the course of the game, due to how Mass Effect 2's Charm/Intimidate system works. You need a high percentage of the Paragon or Renegade points obtainable from the areas that you've explored in order to pass the persuasion check; the amount of the meter that is filled in does not provide an accurate indication of whether Charm or Intimidate will be possible.

Email[]
If you convince Miranda to talk to Oriana, she will send Shepard a message titled "Guardian angels":





From: Oriana (Lawson)

I hope this is the right Commander Shepard. I'm Oriana. My sister only told me a little, but I don't think it occurred to her that I'm as smart as she is. I poked around a little and found an information broker who got me this address.

I got to thank her, but I never got to thank you for helping me. My parents don't really understand it, but I know how much Miranda did, how many little things over the years were her looking out for me. I'm not going to tell them. I still want to go to school and get some degrees. But I wanted you to know that I know you saved me.

I had a guardian angel all these years. I don't know if my sister has anybody. She said that she's working for you, and it was pretty clear that you were doing something dangerous. Make sure she comes back alive, okay?

-Oriana

PS: Don't tell her I sent you this. It would just make her angry.


PPS: Miranda, quit looking at Shepard's messages. Oh, don't act like you don't. It's what I'd do.


Enemies[]
Captain Enyala
Combat Drone
Eclipse Engineer
Eclipse Heavy
Eclipse Operative
Eclipse Trooper
Eclipse Vanguard
LOKI Mech
Mass Effect 3 Consequences[]
If this mission is not completed, Kai Leng will mortally wound Miranda during Priority: Horizon in Mass Effect 3.

Mission Summary[]
Miranda’s sister and her family successfully placed at (LOCATION REDACTED). Mother’s new job pays well enough to ensure comfort and ease. Will keep Oriana under observation for her safety only. Miranda Lawson is too valuable to Cerberus, and Oriana’s well being is easiest means of procuring loyalty.
Miranda remains loyal to Cerberus and now trusts Shepard.

Experience: 750 (937)
Credits: 30,000
Cerberus Funding: 15,000
Credits Found: 15,000
Resources
Element Zero: 500
Upgrades
Submachine Gun Damage (Microfield Pulsar)
Medi-Gel Capacity (Microscanner)
Powers
Miranda: Slam
Trivia[]
Dock 94 may be a reference to Docking Bay 94 located in Mos Eisley in Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope, where Han Solo had his Millennium Falcon waiting to smuggle Obi-Wan Kenobi and Luke Skywalker off Tatooine.
During the last elevator cutscene, one of the music jingles from the notoriously long Citadel elevator rides in Mass Effect can be heard in the background. Appropriately, Miranda curses the elevator for not going any faster.



