


Dr. Ryota Nakamoto has requested your help in stealing back a medical formula, which Sloane Kelly has been abusing to create a drug known as "Oblivion."
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Go to Dr. Nakamoto's old lab
2.2 Defeat Outcast guards
2.3 Retrieve formula
2.4 Return to Dr. Nakamoto


3 Rewards
4 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Talk to Dr. Ryota Nakamoto in the slums of Kadara Port on Kadara (marked with a ).

Walkthrough[]
Go to Dr. Nakamoto's old lab[]
Head northwest of Kadara Port into the Haarfel region marked with . When Pathfinder Ryder gets near the location of the lab, the mission updates.

Defeat Outcast guards[]
You will have to face a group of Outcasts trying to protect the lab. In the middle of the fight, a Collective team joins the party shooting at you and your team.
Note:  The objective will report as complete when all of the Outcast enemies are defeated even if Collective enemies are still alive.
After the battle, there is an Angaran Intergraded Tech Node that can be scanned for +100 . There is a container next to the tech node that can be looted.

Retrieve formula[]
You will have to take a moment to override the door controls as the door is locked from the inside.
Inside the building is an asari by the name of Arenna Farenth. On the terminal, you can read messages sent between her and Kaetus.




Dosage
Arenna:

Slums need another re-up. Also, adjust the dosage. We had two more die on us. It's bad for business. We want them addicted, not dead.


Kaetus







Re: Dosage
Kaetus,

Lab monkeys should have another batch ready for you pronto. As for the dosage, might be dangerous to adjust without Ryota. I suggest keeping it as is.


Arenna







Re: Dosage
What with all your medical experience? Just do as I say.


Kaetus


Arenna confesses that the drug was intended as is, and that the medicinal properties are a sidenote. She also claims that if Ryder takes the formula, Sloane will have her killed. 
You can choose to take the formula or leave it with her. The consequences are revealed on return to Dr. Nakamoto.
Inside the room are two containers than can be looted and the Unknown Plant can be scanned for +10 .

Return to Dr. Nakamoto[]
If the formula is left with Arenna, Dr. Nakamoto wishes he had nothing to do with you and stays in the Kadara Slums.
If you take the formula, Dr. Nakamoto will thank Ryder and will move to Ditaeon once the outpost is set up. Arenna does not die and stays in the building with the plants.

Rewards[]
If Ryder leaves the formula:

+530 XP
If Ryder takes the formula:

+530 XP
+73 AVP 
+5% Kadara viability
Trivia[]
According to the official Prima guide, leaving the formula with Arenna prevents Ditaeon from being settled. This is no longer the case following subsequent versions of the game.



