


Professor Herik from the Nexus tech labs has asked you to make a home for a young pyjak aboard the Tempest. 
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Pick up the pyjak from the Nexus docking bays
2.2 Visit the pyjak on the Tempest


3 Rewards
4 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Mass Effect: Andromeda Deluxe Edition or Mass Effect: Andromeda Super Deluxe Edition

Prerequisite: A Better Beginning

This mission is only available in the Deluxe or Super Deluxe editions of Mass Effect: Andromeda.
Once you have access to the Tempest after fulfilling the relevant instructions in the Priority Op mission above, read emails to find one from Professor Herik. Acknowledging the email will add the mission to the journal.




Pyjak
To: Ryder
From: Herik

Pathfinder:

It was marvelous to meet you! As a fellow adventurer in the sciences, could you help us with an experiment?

We have an interesting chap here on the Nexus: a young pyjak, what humans sometimes call a "space monkey." He's part of a study on how various species adapt to shipboard life, and we're hoping you might take him aboard the Tempest. You can pick him up from the Nexus Commons whenever you like. Don't worry, he's quite friendly, and his routine's very simple: no food after 2359, no baths or showers, and please limit his exposure to solar radiation.

Professor Herik




Walkthrough[]
Pick up the pyjak from the Nexus docking bays[]
After reading the email from Professor Herik, travel to the Nexus Common Area and investigate the northern corner near the general merchant. You will find a container labeled Pyjak. Examine the container to continue the mission.

Visit the pyjak on the Tempest[]
When you return to the Tempest, the pyjak will already have escaped from its cage. Find and interact with it to complete the mission. 
The pyjak can thereafter be found in various locations around the ship and each interaction will trigger dialogue from you or one of the crew members.

Rewards[]
Pyjak (The pyjak becomes a permanent fixture aboard the Tempest.)
Trivia[]
As a possible reference to the film "Gremlins," the routine instructions appear to be restatements of the rules about Mogwai.



