







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Moshae Sjefa's Laboratory is her personal sanctum inside the Repository of History in Aya's capital city. It is only accessible after Vehn Terev's fate has been set.
A meeting between the Moshae's former student Akksul and Pathfinder Ryder can be brokered by the Moshae at the lab. However, Akksul's xenophobia preempts any chance of a sitdown.

Layout[]
The lab is down a set of stairs from the only interior door in the Repository of History.
It is composed of a single room stuffed with numerous artifacts of angaran, kett, and Remnant origins. The Moshae can be found at the center table studying the plans for the Aya vault. Several datapads containing her notes also litter the space.

Missions[]
Allies and Relationships
Jaal Ama Darav: Friend or Foe? II
Datapads[]



Notes: Moshae Sjefa

Translated from Shelesh:

BEGIN DICTATION

After years of staring at these vault plans, so much of it still remains a mystery. Not that we haven't tried. Still, after what happened, maybe it's best to leave the vault alone now.


We've spent so long on Aya striving to learn whatever we can about the Remnant and their amazing constructs. I see our future in these Remnant plans. Call it intuition, scientific intuition if you will, but I've marked it down here for posterity. We'll see what unfolds.







Notes regarding Exaltation

Translated from Shelesh:

The question isn't how the kett genetically modify us, but why. If Exaltation is their reproductive process, kett are a model of inefficiency. If they can transform one lifeform into something so radically different, then surely the kett must also be capable of creating clones. Wouldn't that provide more satisfactory results, especially for such a xenophobic culture?

The goal of incorporating useful genetic material from other species into baseline kett genetic material doesn't fully explain the level of effort they expend. Exaltation is a lengthy and labor-intensive activity. What I witnessed at the facility didn't feel like mass-production. It was almost religious.


There's so much about our enemy I need to understand.





