


Location: Milky Way / Omega Nebula / Arinlarkan

Prerequisite: N7: Archeological Dig Site






“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Description[]
DERELICT SHIP DETECTED: 
Derelict ship, registered MSV Strontium Mule, visibly damaged from weapons fire. Ship is not responding to hails despite life signs aboard. Transmissions using known Blue Suns encryption detected. Airlocks are sealed, but the ship can be boarded through an emergency hatch in the cargo hold.

Mass Effect 2[]
The Strontium Mule is a freighter commanded by Captain Jarrett Barnes. It is composed of three decks, with the cargo hold at the bottom, the engine room, med bay and maintenance bay in the middle, and the bridge, crew quarters, and secure cargo compartment at the top. The bridge and cargo hold are in the fore section while the rest are in the aft section. The crew quarters and med bay are in the port side while the maintenance bay and secure cargo compartment are in the starboard side.
The Mule's crew answered a distress signal which turned out to be a Blue Suns trap, and they initially escaped albeit with heavy damage to the ship. Two weeks later the Suns managed to capture the ship, which had sustained damage to its FTL drives and comm arrays. The crew were rounded up and killed, mostly in their own quarters, one in the med bay, and one in the bridge who could be assumed is Captain Barnes himself as the corpses were rendered unrecognizable. Before his capture by the Suns and demise Captain Barnes composed a final log explaining what happened to them, also including the encrypted authorization codes to the ship's most valuable cargo. The Suns' Captain Vorhess retrieved the codes in the ship's black box, and set to work decrypting it in anticipation of its big payout.
If Commander Shepard follows through on a trail leading to the ship, the Blue Suns attempt to ambush the squad as they enter but die trying. The Suns realize who they're dealing with, leading to a schism between the mercenaries, as Sergeant Boortis and his team refuse to reinforce Captain Vorhess on the bridge when Shepard comes in guns blazing. The plan to reduce the number of payout beneficiaries and deal with Shepard fails as Boortis and his goons are also killed in short order, leaving the assets of the ship in the Commander's hands.

Assignment[]
Assignment: N7: MSV Strontium Mule



