


A corpse has been discovered in the market. This is the latest in a string of murders plaguing Kadara Port.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Scan corpse
2.2 Speak to Reyes about murders


3 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Hunting the Archon

After the conversation with Vehn Terev in his prison, there will be a dead body lying on the ground with some people around it in Kadara Market. The body is marked with a  on the map. Approaching it starts the mission.
If you did not receive the mission by sidestepping the scene the first time, after a mission development in other missions Kallo Jath comms in to notify you about it, but you still need to approach the corpse to trigger the mission.

Walkthrough[]
This mission is a simple "talk to people" one, so you won't have to do much other than listening to the information given, doing a couple of chores, and going places.

Scan corpse[]
SAM offers to help by scanning the body. It's an angara with multiple lacerations on the face and abdomen. The Outcast guard standing there says there have been seven such murders. SAM suggests talking with Reyes Vidal.
Note:  The corpse is a randomly generated male body and could be wearing any type of appropriate clothes.




Deceased Angara

DATA:
Complex organism
100% angara
Status: No vital signs

ANALYSIS:

Blood alcohol levels show the victim was intoxicated at time of death. Victim bled out after multiple stab wounds to the stomach. Wounds on the face were made postmortem.


Speak to Reyes about murders[]
Reyes is in the Tartarus nightclub in the Kadara Slums. He brings up the murders immediately. Pathfinder Ryder mentions that the locals believe it's the work of the Charlatan. 
Reyes doesn't believe that because the Charlatan is known to be careful and discreet. He thinks it's the Roekaar, and that they came to Kadara looking for new recruits and something got out of hand. His theory is supported by the fact that the angara among the murder victims were all known to be sympathetic towards the Milky Way people. He suggests you should use SAM to scan the other murder victims' bodies for clues and points out that this might an opportunity to make friends in Kadara.
The mission completes when the conversation is over, and the follow-up mission A People Divided starts automatically.

Rewards[]
+270 XP



