


A new email is waiting for you.

Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Read Email From Drack
2.2 Meet Drack On The Nexus


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards


Acquisition[]
This mission can only be acquired if Ryder decided to save the krogan instead of the Pathfinder Zevin Raeka near the end of the Priority Op Mission Hunting the Archon.
This mission can be acquired after completing Epilogue: Home and Away, and by acknowledging an email from Nakmor Drack. The alternative is to just skip the email and go to Drack directly on the Nexus, as described in the walkthrough.
Walkthrough[]
Read Email From Drack[]



Some good news
To: Ryder
From: Drack

Hey kid,

Been thinking about how much we've been through since I came aboard. We nailed Spender. And the Archon. Survived a whole mess of things.

It's about time I let you in on a little secret. Something good.

Meet me on the Nexus and don't tell anyone.


Drack


Acknowledge the email to get the next objective.

Meet Drack On The Nexus[]
Ryder will need to find Drack on the Nexus. Go to the second level of the Docking Bay and head towards the Nexus apartments. Open the first apartment on the left, and the next scene will play out with Ryder walking in on Dr. Harry Carlyle telling Drack and Nakmor Kesh that everything is going well. When Ryder steps into the room, Harry will ask if he can watch the secret being revealed to Ryder. From there, Ryder will be able to respond accordingly to the "secret".
After this short dialogue, Kesh will explain that they're krogan children live in the egg, and that this is very exciting for them. Drack responds by saying that they are anxious for the future but that Ryder will be included in that future. Depending on how Ryder responds, Kesh and Drack will respond saying that Ryder won't be the only godparent and saying that Drack will teach the krogan children everything about what it means to be a krogan, just like Kesh was taught. 
The mission is marked as completed at this point but an email will arrive later.

Aftermath[]
Once Ryder returns to the Tempest, another email from Drack will arrive.





Future out here
To: Ryder
From: Drack

Bear with me for a second. An old krogan's about to get emotional...

Not long ago, I honestly wondered why I'm still alive. There were so many times I almost bit it. A lot of those times I deserved to.

Somehow I kept living. Living so long it's easy to feel like nothing matter anymore, beyond maybe the smile I get spotting a new scar in the mirror.

But when I see all we've done out here: Kesh's clutch. Meridian. Suddenly, the life I've burned and blown through has a real point. A reason to groan outta my bunk again and again: We're making everyone else's lives a little more worth living.

Thanks for helping me see that, kid.


Drack


Rewards[]
None



