


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
On occasion when Drack is in the squad, he will engage in conversations unique to him.

Unique Dialogue[]
Throughout Ryder's travels, there are specific points where Drack will voice his opinions. 

On A Better Beginning:
Drack wants a military outpost if his opinion is asked, keeping the hostile kett in mind.
On A People Divided:
If Ryder deems the dead krogan whose frontal plate was pried off before he was shot a poor bastard, Drack quickly claims the guy isn't one of his spawn.
On Conflict in the Colony, while conversing with Jorgal Strux:
If Ryder opens the talks by claiming they value the krogan, the Pathfinder further explains some of their best friends are krogan. Drack agrees.
When Strux claims Morda is planning a strike against the Nexus, Drack can vouch for the Nakmor clan leader.
On Parlay with the Krogan:
At the main entrance to New Tuchanka Drack vouches for the Pathfinder team when the lookouts prohibit outsiders from going in. The guards acknowledge his presence, and Drack can reiterate his support for the Pathfinder if one of the lookouts is being obstinate.
While conversing with Overlord Nakmor Morda, Morda tells Drack he got a new job and Drack replies she got a new title.
At the conclusion of the conversation with Ravanor Brenk Drack thanks him for the provided information.
Spontaneous[]
Sometimes Drack will say something spontaneously, without being prompted.

On Eos:
While wandering around Site 1: Promise, Drack shares an old krogan saying: "First steps mark the brave and dead."
While wandering around a scientific Prodromos, Drack thinks they'd still be better off if it was a military outpost instead. If it is a military outpost, Drack approves of the increased safety due to the soldiers' presence.
On Havarl:
While roaming around the Central Wilds after learning of the world's decline, Drack tries to confirm Kiiran Dals' assessment that the presently lush environment will disappear one day.
While wandering around the Remnant Abyss after hearing about angaran reincarnation from First Sage Esmus, Drack dismisses multiple past lives: when one has lived as long as him, it's one life too many.
At Chasm of the Builders Drack warns not to trust anything Remnant, especially their giant ditch.
On Voeld:
On the mountain pass en route to the Angaran Resistance Base from the Tempest, Drack appreciates the base's location: secluded, and the blizzard provides cover.
On approach to the first Solar Heater, Drack notifies the squad about it and asks if any of the "squishies" need to warm up.
Seeing the Resistance's command center for the first time, Drack asks if the giant holoprojection is of the planet and everything else on it.
On approach to Hjara Station, Drack wonders what's special about the enormous ice cube there as there's ice literally everywhere.
On Elaaden:
Inside New Tuchanka just beyond the main entrance, two krogan are loudly discussing how long the Pathfinder can last in a real fight. Drack explains they're testing if Ryder is easily provoked.
After the conclusion of Aspirations, if Barrett moved into his new base and was told about the munitions stockpile there, he talks about taking over other groups. Drack scoffs and says he still doesn't trust the human, claiming he's too twitchy.
During Hunting the Archon:
When the Behemoth is unleashed at the Archon's Chamber, Drack tries ordering it to stand down as it used to be one of his missing scouts. It doesn't comply, or even seem to understand.
Following the Behemoth's death, Drack hopes the Void will have the former krogan's soul.
Drack insists on going after his scouts when the time comes to choose between saving either them or the salarian Pathfinder Zevin Raeka. If Raeka is chosen to be saved, he grumbles in disagreement. Shortly later when they reach Raeka, Ryder vows to push ahead and not stop for anything. Drack pointedly asks if that includes krogan, but assures the Pathfinder he'll still shoot whatever needs shooting.
Nomad Banter[]
While driving across a landscape in the Nomad, Drack may initiate conversations around certain topics. 

As tech wears down in different planetary conditions, Drack usually ends up walking.
While talking with Cora:
Drack confirms he fought in the Krogan Rebellions, knowing it's hard to believe with his "youthful good looks." He opines only the asari came out of that war relatively unscathed due to their talent at keeping their hands clean.
Drack boasts the best thing about the Rebellions was his ancestor, Shiagur. Cora is unimpressed, so Drack tries to tell her he has the clan brands to prove it.
While talking with Liam:
Drack rebuffs the human's attempts at conversation due to his relative inexperience.
Drack experiences the years in a blur due to his immense age that he's not bothered as much when "young shits" die. He tells Liam he might be someone worth knowing, but he's just a skull in Drack's eyes.
When Liam asks for insights fighting kett, Drack simply tells him they die when shot, and that it isn't hard to figure out the kett also want them dead.
Drack has trouble recognizing the First Contact War due to the number of conflicts he's been in: he claims he's had indigestions that lasted longer.
In response to Liam complaining about hardship, Drack claims he broke his own back in the Skyllian Verge diving through a batarian scout ship to kill the pilot. He then tells the human to suck it up.
While talking with Jaal:
When Jaal asks how many times did the krogan save the Milky Way, Drack claims it's one too many for some of them.
When Jaal asks why someone nearing the end of his life would sign up with the Initiative, Drack rhetorically asks why someone at the beginning of theirs would join up with strangers like the Pathfinder's team. He denies being old and dying, and when Jaal is pressed he asks if the angara thinks he's deaf too. When Jaal asks Ryder to intervene and is rebuffed, Drack reveals he's just messing with Jaal. He does admit being old, though he still has "a lot of livin' left".
Much later, Drack does acknowledge that he's dying. He has seen a lot of things in his long life but probably won't see much more, so he figured why not see something no krogan ever has. Jaal is honored to fight by his side, so Drack tells him the feeling's mutual.
Drack asks where Jaal learned to fight and his equivalent of a rite of passage. When it turns out Jaal's story is of a more romantic nature, Drack sagely comments that he understands completely.
When Jaal inquires if Drack suffered through a similar heartbreak, Drack corrects him: krogan have four hearts, and he's not willing to talk about it.
Drack draws parallels between kett-angara relations and salarian-krogan relations: "There's always someone who thinks they're better than you." He disparages Jaal's initial impressions on salarians, claiming the sniper hasn't met many of them to form a more negative one.
When Jaal asks why the Milky Way is called as such, Drack clarifies it's what the humans call their home galaxy. Salarians and krogan have their own terms. When Jaal asks for the krogan term, Drack simply calls it "gone" as it's 600 years away.
When Jaal inquires about Nakmor Kesh's status in the Nexus, Drack tells him the brass would have loved to see Kesh go with the rest of the krogan, but they can't because she's special. He's proud of his ru'shan for keeping the Nexus honest.
Drack advises not to trust the smaller races since they'll do anything to get their shots in when Jaal comments about the krogan being the largest of the Initiative species.
Drack notices the angaran propensity for very large families, claiming the krogan used to be the same.
Following the reveals about exaltation, Drack muses it must be hard to learn it on Voeld, but on the upside, there are no child kett. Jaal insists they still used to be family, so Drack calls it even.
Drack suddenly bursts into laughter remembering an old joke that he just got the punchline to. He recounts it thus: "Knock knock." "Who's there?" "Incompetently: an elcor." He then laughs out loud again.
When Jaal asks about the dinner Drack cooked the previous night, the krogan calls it the "Drack Surprise". He points out that's why it's called a "surprise" when Jaal argues they had it before but it tasted different then.
While talking with Peebee:
Drack asks if she's trying to look like a superhero with the smudge in her eyes. He also doesn't deny trying to look like a supervillain when Peebee turns the question to the bones on his armor.
Drack assures her she has already met people who wore dead stuff: just not dead on the outside, however.
When Peebee inquires about him approaching the end of his lifespan, Drack doesn't care how many years he has left as he plans on doing a whole lot of living in that time.
Drack asks why Peebee's using a Sidewinder instead of something more powerful, adding she's biotically powerful enough to make him light on his feet.
On Eos:
Around Outland Spire Drack muses how it's like to cannonball into the nearby lake.
After the success of Prodromos he finds it strange how bleeding for a place makes it feel worthwile.
Drack supposes colonists change things but not always for the better. Ryder hopes Prodromos sets a high bar.
Around the rock formations near the Four Giants, Drack mentions he likes hoodoos as one can trick thresher maws into smashing in them.
Ryder assures the third squadmate one can get used to living on Eos if they try. Drack has a simple way to know if it's good advice: if there are more people walking than buried.
Ryder assures the third squadmate nothing on Eos can stop the Initiative from making it better. Drack remarks how strange it is that bleeding for a place makes it worthwhile.
On Voeld:
While descending the mountain pass from the Angaran Resistance Base to the rest of the valley for the first time, Drack happily announces going downhill is always more fun.
Drack proclaims his respect for the angaran way of fighting, deeming it almost krogan.
Drack complains that some of his cybernetic parts weren't made to function in freezing temperatures.
Regardless, he muses he could live on Voeld or anywhere else.
Drack shares he was once stranded on a frozen moon and almost lost his good toe.
He complains about the bumpy drive claiming his old bones are getting stiff.
Near the Kett Base Drack wants Ryder to take him up there so he can deal with the kett bastards by himself.
Near the entrance high up Drack warns Ryder not to drive them off the edge of the cliff.
While talking with Cora:
She notices Drack holds the Nexus in low regard even for a krogan. Drack answers her questions with questions of his own.
Drack notes she works too hard.
Cora asks about his scout recruiting process. Drack tells her he both accepts recruits and volunteers. In case of the latter, younger krogan often hear about his reputation and seek him out: if the prospect looks like he "took a shuttle to the face but [he's] still walking", Drack signs him up.
Drack hopes the Initiative's luck holds and the "Remnant junk" on Eos will ensure it stays suitable for an outpost.
He disparages Cora's Karita shooting stance, claiming it looks like a salarian tied to a ceiling fan.
Drack doesn't care for retiring with honors when Cora brings up what an Asari Commando would do at his age. He reconsiders and asks if he gets free booze, only to dismiss the notion again when Cora tells him he doesn't.
Drack tells her only "most" of him is 1,400 years old as bits of him are cybernetic. He had a lot of bastards to outlive, as he explains.
Drack inquires about Cora's association with Alec Ryder.
He attempts to goad her into revealing Alec's "deep, dark secrets" since there's no point keeping a dead man's secrets. When Cora refuses, Drack turns to Pathfinder Ryder and calls it an example of "loyalty."
In response to Cora's disparaging remarks about his shooting accuracy, Drack insists it's called "covering fire" and he can get her a picture book to clarify.
Drack borrows a heat sink from her to plug a hole in his armor exposing his nether parts.
When Cora comments about the immense pressure they're facing, Drack tells her that judging by the odds they would not have made it to Andromeda in the first place.
Drack trash-talks Cora's lousy poker skill and sore loser attitude.
When Cora asks him to clean his armor, Drack splutters in the middle of his retort, calling it an "old man moment".
On Kadara:
While talking with Liam:
After Liam Kosta: All In, Drack asks if he's planning more rescues. The old krogan deems the mission as pure simple fun: no sciency complications like experiments or gene theft, just shooting pirates in the face. He wants in on further missions like that.
On Elaaden:
Drack remarks a younger him would have killed the Pathfinder. He then compares the even younger him to Ryder.
Drack warns Ryder to be careful around Nakmor Morda as she's still pissed off at the Nexus.
While talking with Liam:
Drack tells him krogan "law enforcement" is very different from what he does (peacekeeping).
Drack tells him not to jinx their continued survival: there's always someone down the road who think they've got the two by the quads. Liam takes the idiom at face value since humans don't have four of the organs, to which Drack tells him not to worry as two are harder to grab.
Drack reasons that with all things equal the side who starts at 100% before the other side knows they're on it wins. Aside from hating hard and early, he also advises learning to love fiber.
When Liam talks about a brawl on New Tuchanka, Drack explains someone called Morda "phage-lucky": a generational insult. The heckler/s only lost teeth through judicious use of a crowbar, though Drack opines they got off easy.
While talking with Peebee:
Peebee observes the sky has a weird color but thinks it's just natural. Drack agrees with the first part.
Drack praises her for not going soft against Remnant targets considering her passions.
When Peebee teases his annoyance at the lack of a krogan ark, Drack retorts the krogan and the asari (who have an ark) somehow ended up in the exact same place, referring to the less than ideal arrival of the Initiative.
While talking with Vetra:
Vetra complains about Sid being an obstinate sister. Drack opines kids need boundaries, but they need to know their sibling is not the enemy. Hearing about her dad, Drack guesses he was special ops and disappeared from their life, finding out he knows the type.
Vetra wonders how she and her sister would have been if they had a better home life. Drack tells her a difficult upbringing is actually good because she took what she had and made it hers. The turian wishes he raised her and Sid, though Drack chuckles they would have turned out worse at everything except shooting.



