


By all accounts, William Spender is a difficult man. But there is reason to suspect that the Assistant Director of Colonial Affairs is actively working to undermine the krogan. Drack has asked you to investigate Spender's activities.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Find Spender on the Nexus
2.2 Talk to Kesh about Spender
2.3 Speak with Kandros
2.4 Review Nexus security footage
2.5 Confront Spender about security footage
2.6 ON HOLD: Locate the planet mentioned in security footage
2.7 Talk to SAM on the Tempest
2.8 Investigate Spender's Kadara connection
2.9 Defeat the exiles
2.10 Search the hideout for clues
2.11 Search for a scrambler in Spender's room
2.12 Talk to the Comms officer
2.13 Speak to Drack on the Tempest


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards
5 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: A Better Beginning

Speak to Drack after he joins Ryder's crew. Ask him about the Nexus uprising to learn about his belief that Spender was partly responsible for the event.

Walkthrough[]
Find Spender on the Nexus[]
When you first return to the Nexus after obtaining Drack as a squad member,  you can overhear a conversation between Spender and a salarian technician named Del Jasin. Spender berates the salarian for incompetence and making frivolous requests for parts to fix the air filtration system on the Nexus. After Spender leaves, Ryder can ask her if Spender is always such an abusive supervisor which she affirms. Del suggests that Ryder undermine Spender's reputation with the Nexus leadership in order to get him removed.

Talk to Kesh about Spender[]
Find Nakmor Kesh in her office. She will reveal that Spender has gained the favor of the Nexus leadership but she believes he might be communicating with the exiles. She suggests speaking with Tiran Kandros to obtain the proof of his betrayal.
+50 XP is awarded after the conversation.

Speak with Kandros[]
Talk to Kandros and let him know you're investigating a possible link between Spender and the Nexus uprising. He'll note that there were some discrepancies but that there hasn't been time to dig deeper to find answers. He'll give Ryder access to the video archives.

Review Nexus security footage[]
Head to Operations to review the Security Footage. Unfortunately, the security footage is corrupted, and there isn't anything definitive about Spender's actions that prove he is guilty.

Confront Spender about security footage[]
Head to the navpointto speak with Spender. Speaking to Spender, he denies any wrongdoing and warns Ryder off further investigation. At this point the mission is put on hold until Ryder can locate the planet mentioned in the security footage.
Ryder is awarded +530 XP after the conversation.

ON HOLD: Locate the planet mentioned in security footage[]
When you come within orbit of Kadara, the next objective becomes active.

Talk to SAM on the Tempest[]
SAM has discovered more about Spender and gives a navpoint for further investigation.

Investigate Spender's Kadara connection[]
Head to the Sulfur Springs region on Kadara and head to the southwest. Anti-vehicle mines are detected when approaching the navpoint, causing SAM to suggest proceeding on foot. Driving in the area with the ND1 Nomad on the direct approach from the southeast will cause the mines to explode and result in mission failure. However, the area north into the mountainous area is free of mines and making a large circle to the west allows Ryder to drive the Nomad right up to the complex. This also has the advantage of coming in behind where the raiders are stationed on the landing pad.

Defeat the exiles[]
The outlaws realize the Pathfinder is coming and believes that Spender must have blabbed. The outlaws try to escape but a shuttle leaves without them. Defeat the remaining outlaws.

Search the hideout for clues[]
On a datapad is a message to Spender from someone named Aroane in the lower room.




Paper Trail
To: William Spender
From: Undisclosed Recipient

Spender,

We received your supplies, but I'm not sure how you expect us to keep pressure on the krogan. It's half of what you promised. Maybe we can throw rations at them?

I'm starting to think trusting you was a bad idea. Have you even used that scrambler I gave you? I bet it's just lying around your quarters or something.

You've got a title. That means power. Use it.


Aroane


Evidently, Spender has been sneaking Nexus goods to the exiles. SAM concludes that the scrambler could explain the destroyed files on the Nexus' security system. You receive +29 AVP  and +2% Kadara viability after this event.
Inside the datapad room is a container and there is an Adapted Initiative Core Tech than can be scanned for +100 .
In the upper room are two containers and a terminal with multiple entries.





Shipment 349-1
Status: Received
Client: Spender
Recipient: Aroane

Contents: Medical Supply Crate x2, Ration Crate x5, Krogan Colony Map, Mantis, Predator x2, Grenade x6







Shipment 346-1
Status: Received
Client: Reyes
Recipient: Aroane

Contents: Regular munitions shipment







Shipment 347-1
Status: Received
Client: Undisclosed
Recipient: Aroane
Contents: Data scramblers x5


Note: Deluxe model, capable of storing and scrambling data.







Shipment 348-1
Status: Sent
Client: Umi
Broker: Aroane

Contents: Ryncol x5, Whiskey x10, Vodka x12, Ether







Shipment 350-1
Status: Sent
Client: Eskaal
Broker: Aroane

Contents: Stimulants, Medi-gel, Sedatives, Ether


Search for a scrambler in Spender's room[]
Head to the Nexus and break into Spender's room. Upon entering the room, SAM says he can't "see" part of the room. If you try to scan, SAM says that there is some interference, and that you must manually investigate.
There are multiple datapads in the room.




A Formal Letter to Tann
Director Tann,

I am writing to request an official review of Nakmor Kesh's suitability as Nexus superintendent.

The krogan indeed helped suppress the mutiny by those we now dub "exiles." However, given the krogan's conduct during the uprising, and their decision to leave the Nexus after their requests for more authority were denied, it is not hard to see Kesh's current position as a conflict of interest.

I understand it may be politically beneficial to keep a krogan on staff, for optics if not diplomacy. But for one of them to hold the power of a superintendent, given their brethren's negative opinion of us, is frankly playing with fire.

It is my opinion, as an experienced public servant, that Kesh should be placed in a role where she can do less damage. Perhaps in charge of archives.

Sincerely,
William Spender

Assistant Director of Colonial Affairs







Nexus Report on Krogan Colony
Colony Name: New Tuchanka
Location: Elaaden
Estimated Population: 700+ (about 1,200 krogan came to Andromeda)
Key People: Nakmor Morda (leader), Jorgal Strux (potential agitator), Nakmor Drack (Initiative freelancer, grandfather of Nakmor Kesh)

The colony is thriving by krogan standards. They are storing water and have enough to be self-sufficient. They have time for entertainment. There is a fighting pit. A distillery. Even a greenhouse, where they appear to be growing plants in an attempt to sustain the colony long-term. This is spearheaded by a botanist named Vorn.


The krogan built their colony into the side of a sinkhole. Some construction materials were apparently taken from the Nexus. Other materials are locally sourced. The compound is heavily guarded and it is difficult to get in unless you are a krogan.







Supplies Ready for Shipment
- Medical Supply Crate x2
- Ration Crate x5
- Map
- Toy Pistol x2
- Surveyor Camera
- Battery Cells x6

- 2,000 Credits


There is also a terminal with multiple entries in the room.




RE: Advice for Aspiring Community Leader
To: Sal Taylor
From: William Spender

Sal,

I appreciate you taking the time to reach out to me. I'm always happy to give advice to junior colonists interested in a future in politics.

My advice is my father's. Just before I shipped off to Andromeda, he said: "Always help the little guy, but also help anyone with their boot on that little guy's neck."

To get to where I am, you have to try to please everyone. This will ensure you'll always be right with someone.

William Spender

Assistant Director of Colonial Affairs







Air Filters
To: William Spender
From: Nakmor Kesh

Spender,

Del Jasin told me you denied her request for properly functioning air filters? Do you realize how important it is to keep our staff healthy and working? I can't understand why you'd try to block this. It's getting to the point where I need to talk to Addison about your conduct.

I'm sorry, but this is getting ridiculous.


Kesh







RE: RE: Air Filters
To: William Spender
From: Foster Addison

Bill,

Come see me. We need to talk.


Foster







RE: Paper Trail
To: Undisclosed Recipient
From: William Spender

A,

For someone so paranoid, it's funny that you'd title your email "Paper Trail" and sign it with your own name. Why not just "Evidence"?

Of course I've held onto proof of our agreement. You're an exile, aren't you? I need some leverage for when you finally decide to turn on me.

No one's finding anything. I doubt anyone even cares to look.


S


There is an Initiative Fighter model ship on a shelf to the left of the door when entering that was declared missing from inventory six months ago. You can choose either to take it for yourself or bring it back to the Nexus inventory. Warning:  The model must be collected before leaving the apartment or the model is lost.
There are several audio logs in the room as well.
The encrypted audio logs in the room reveal how Spender has been undermining the Nexus' activities. There are also supplies that were previously reported missing.
The scrambler is behind the right side of the large monitor in the room. SAM can't analyze the scrambler, so Ryder decides to let a comms expert look at it.

Talk to the Comms officer[]
The Comms Officer is standing next to Foster Addison in Operations on the Nexus. During the conversation you can choose whether to be open or secretive with what Ryder knows.
It's a scrambler for sure, and they are illegal, because they can hack through any security.
Ryder asks the Comms Officer to get some solid evidence for who has been using it. He'll let the Pathfinder know when he has found something. 
You will be notified about a new email and the next objective becomes active. The email is about the follow-up mission and there is no need to read or acknowledge the email to continue this mission.

Speak to Drack on the Tempest[]
Head to the Tempest and speak to Drack. According to him, something important has been stolen from a krogan outpost. When the conversation is over, the mission completes, and the follow-up mission Nakmor Drack: A Future for our People starts automatically.

Aftermath[]
The Comms Officer will send an email regarding the scrambler during Nakmor Drack: A Future for our People.

Rewards[]
+1330 XP
+73 AVP 
Trivia[]
Well before this mission is unlocked, Ryder can hear various Nexus personnel complaining about Spender in ambient dialogue.



