









Nassana Dantius
Diplomatic Emissary

Race
Asari


Gender
Feminine


Voice Actor
Grey DeLisle


Appearances
Mass EffectMass Effect 2


Nassana Dantius is an asari diplomatic emissary assigned to the Citadel, found seated in the Embassy Lounge at the Presidium. 







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
Nassana hails from the wealthy and influential Dantius family. However, her own sister, Dahlia Dantius, has been blackmailing her. Dahlia had chosen to lead a gang of pirate slavers and threatened to reveal her existence to the public. As this would ruin Nassana's career and can land her in suspension or even in jail, she devises a scheme to enlist the aid of a Spectre to eliminate her sister. Nassana would spin a tale claiming Dahlia had allegedly been taken prisoner by a band of privateers, and that she tracked them to Sharjila in the Artemis Tau cluster. She would justify not reporting the incident to the authorities with the claim that she allegedly paid Dahlia's ransom contrary to the Citadel's no-negotiation stance on kidnappings.
Commander Shepard can hear about Nassana's cover story from the diplomat herself and agree to "save" her sister, following a message sent to the SSV Normandy requesting a discreet meeting. Even if the Commander refuses to help she sends the pirates' coordinates to the Normandy anyway. Alternatively, Shepard can independently discover the pirate base on their own and eliminate the hostiles there. Whichever the case, the Spectre recovers evidence from the base establishing Nassana and Dahlia as sisters, as well as Dahlia's leadership of the pirates. 
After being confronted with the proof, Nassana drops her "concerned sister" facade and thanks Shepard for eliminating a potential embarrassment: even if Dahlia was her sister she would shed no tears over her death. If Shepard found the merc base on their own, Nassana is almost disappointed that she did not have the chance to manipulate the Commander. If Shepard admonishes her for not telling the truth to begin with, Nassana admits they have "trust issues" in her family.
With the objective accomplished by any means, Nassana then offers payment. Even if Shepard refuses her blood money, Nassana will transfer some credits anyway, claiming she doesn't like being in debt to anyone and suggests giving the money away if the Commander's conscience is bothered. If Shepard warns against cheating on the reward, Nassana insists they will get a fair deal. Alternatively, Shepard can persuade Nassana into adding something extra, and she agrees: anyone can come up with credits, but she can place the Spectre on the buyers list for prototype asari mods. This gives Shepard the Armali Council armory license. Whichever the case, Nassana concludes her association with Shepard on amicable or impersonal terms depending on how polite or rude the Commander is in talking about the reward.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
In 2185 Nassana is on Nos Astra, Illium, having accumulated significant power and influence in the city. Her unscrupulous business habits, namely killing anyone who threatened her reputation, has made her the target of Thane Krios. An asari named Seryna used to work for her until Nassana fired her for speaking out on her practices, which led to Seryna telling Thane everything she knows about her former employer's security arrangements.
Aware that her life is on the line, Nassana sealed herself in the partially built Dantius Towers, at the penthouse of Tower One. She employed Eclipse mercenaries to protect her. She has ordered the salarian workers in the Towers to be purged by LOKI Mechs shortly before Shepard arrives.
Nassana confronts Shepard when the Commander reaches her, mistakenly believing they are the assassin. If Shepard had dealings with her in 2183, she recognizes the Commander and like the rest of the galaxy believes they're dead. If Shepard's being flippant Nassana eventually thinks they find the situation ironic, as the Commander killed her sister and is now coming for her. 
Whichever the case, Nassana does not believe that the Commander would decimate her security forces just to find the actual assassin. She wants the problem to go away, and if Shepard is amenable she offers to bribe double their fee for standing down and double again for divulging who ordered the hit. If no amount of credits can sway Shepard, Nassana spitefully claims they're playing god and they're not so different as they both kill for money.


Eventually, one of Nassana's remaining guards alerts her to a noise. She warns Shepard to stay put as they'll sort things out after this intrusion. She never gets the chance as Thane surreptitiously infiltrates the office through the air ducts, kills the guards, then assassinates her at point blank range.
Thane mentions to Shepard that "she believed that one of her sisters would kill her", implying that Nassana may have more siblings other than Dahlia. In the aftermath, news of her demise is made public, with police having no suspects. It is noted that she made many enemies during her rise to power, and that stock prices in her corporation have risen because of the news.

Trivia[]
Grey DeLisle, who voices Nassana, also provides the voices of Lieutenant Durand, Dalatrass Linron and Kahlee Sanders. She also worked on BioWare's Baldur's Gate II, voicing Viconia DeVir, and Dragon Age: Origins - Awakening, voicing Velanna, Danella, and Private.



