









Nilken Rensus

Race
Turian


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Nilken Rensus is a turian member of the Andromeda Initiative and husband to Mariette, a female turian.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




After the arrival to Andromeda Galaxy and the incident with the Scourge, Nilken is part of the team sent on Eos for one of the failed colonization effort. Once there, the compound is attacked by kett forces and his team leader is killed and the  team is pushed away. Even in this situation, the chief of security Reynolds, best friend of Nilken and ranking officer, refused to call an evacuation and ordered the team to regroup and counter-attack while facing a sandstorm reducing the visibility. Nilken disagrees with the order and start threatening Reynolds. During the arguing, Reynolds takes a bullet in the chest in front of Nilken. Nilken accuses the kett but the rest of team accuses him of the shot.
When the survivors went back to the Nexus, authorities were convinced that Nilken shot Reynolds on purpose to evacuate. Ultimately, he is put on trial and becomes the first Milky Way emigrant charged with murder, the very first murderer in Andromeda. He is then kept prisoner in the cells in Operations of the Nexus by Sergeant Aker and slated for exile.
His wife Mariette, convinced that Nilken is innocent, asks Pathfinder Ryder to investigate the crime scene on Eos and prove Nilken's innocence. If Ryder decides to investigate on Eos, the Pathfinder discovers that Chief Reynolds was shot and killed by kett forces. Ryder also discovers that Nilken fired a missing shot to Reynolds and was convinced to have killed Reynolds himself. He then lied during his trial. Ultimately, Ryder is tasked by Director Tann to decide Nilken's fate in the light of the true events.
If Ryder choose to exile him because he tried to kill Reynolds, Nilken leave the Nexus and can be found in Kadara where he lives free with his wife Mariette. He will thank Ryder for making the call to exile him as his wife Mariette understood why he wanted to save his life on Eos. 
On the contrary, if Ryder decides to release him, Nilken will be charge to make community services on the Nexus. When Mariette hears the truth about the story on Eos, she will decide to leave him and people on the Nexus will still see him as a murderer even if the charges against him are dropped. Eventually, Nilken will ask Dr. Harry Carlyle to put him back into stasis to wait that things blow over. 

Missions[]
First Murderer



