




Nodacrux

Region
Milky Way / Maroon Sea / Vostok





Planet View


Orbital Period
3.6 Earth Years


Radius
5,988 km


Day Length
22.2 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
2.63 atm


Surface Temp
23 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.9 g


Mass
0.787 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Maroon Sea / Vostok System /  Second planet

Prerequisite: Feros: Geth Attack (Mass Effect)

Contents

1 Description
2 Assignments
3 Points of Interest
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Lifeforms
6 Properties
7 Trivia


Description[]
Nodacrux is a verdant world with abundant water, temperate climate, a thick oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere and a rich ecosystem. It would seem to be perfect for life. The relatively high percentage of oxygen makes humans feel energized and alive, though it has also allowed insect analogues to grow to frightful sizes.
Unfortunately, Nodacrux is a case of "almost but not quite." Thunderstorms are as common as on Earth, but in Nodacrux's thicker, oxygen-rich atmosphere, they are deafening and spark constant wildfires. More damning, however, are the large and ubiquitous tufts of pollen that float in the high-pressure air. In humans and other oxygen-breathing species, they cause severe or lethal allergic reactions.

Assignments[]
Assignment: Investigate Facility → UNC: ExoGeni Facility
Collection: UNC: Turian Insignias: Insignias ×1 (Thracia Colony)
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals: Heavy Metal ×1 / Light Metal ×1
Points of Interest[]



Location

Appearance

Description


1

Initial

ExoGeni facility (UNC: ExoGeni Facility)


2

Initial

Crashed probe (salvage)


3

Initial

Ancient wreckage (UNC: Turian Insignias)
  
“This escape pod is half-buried in material that has washed down from the mountains.  Though it has obviously been here for centuries, the computer still has power.  Linking in with your hardsuit, you recover a batch of files containing data on the Thracia Colony.”




4

Unmarked

Crashed ship and Thorian Creepers


5

Unmarked

Abandoned camp and Thorian Creepers (salvage). The "song" commonly associated with the rachni can be heard here.


6

Unmarked

Space Cow herd


Mineral Deposits[]

Main article: UNC: Valuable Minerals


Location

Element

Class


1

Gold

Heavy


2

Cobalt

Light


Lifeforms[]
Thorian Creeper
Dr. Ross
Mercenary
Space Cow
Properties[]
The planet has a very rugged mountain complex that is difficult to navigate even with the Mako's climbing abilities. Minerals and other points of interest are usually nestled either on top of sheer cliffs or below them.
Points of Interest 4 and 5 are easily reachable from the landing zone, after which a drive to 3, 2, and then straight over the hills to the Exogeni facility at 1 is reasonably straightforward. Alternatively, the Exogeni facility is fairly easy to reach via a gently sloping, winding path from the south.
The southern mineral deposit cannot be approached from the north, due to sheer cliffs. It must be approached from the south.

Trivia[]
The name Nodacrux may be derived from two Latin roots: crux, meaning "cross" as well as "pain", "torture", "misery"; and nodus, meaning "knot" or "knob".



