




Nonuel

Region
Milky Way / Hades Gamma / Plutus





Planet View


Orbital Distance
30.08 AU


Orbital Period
94.0 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
3.08


Radius
4,439 km


Day Length
46.9 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.88 atm


Surface Temp
127 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.85 g


Mass
0.409 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Hades Gamma / Plutus System /  Fourth planet

Prerequisite: 75% Morality (Mass Effect)

Contents

1 Description
2 Assignments
3 Points of Interest
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Lifeforms
6 Search and Rescue
7 Properties
8 Trivia
9 Bug


Description[]
WARNING: Level 1 Heat Hazard
Though it is one of the oldest entries in the star charts, Nonuel has not yet been fully mapped. It is the largest body in the asteroid belt of the blue star Plutus, not only large enough to maintain a spherical shape, but also massive enough to retain the noxious carbon and sulphur dioxides venting from its many volcanoes as an atmosphere.
Nonuel is rabidly volcanic, and the source of its great heat is also the source of its inordinate mass. Nonuel is a "secondary source" of element zero, coalesced around a large chunk of eezo ejected by a supernova billions of years ago.
Surface conditions are extremely hazardous. In addition to the thin crust and numerous magma flows, wide stretches of the landscape are coated with slippery ash and cinders ejected from the volcanoes.

Assignments[]
Assignment: UNC: The Negotiation
Collection: UNC: Asari Writings: Matriarch's Writings ×1
Collection: UNC: Locate Signs of Battle: League of One Medallion ×1
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals:  Light Metal ×1 / Rare Element ×1
Points of Interest[]



Location

Appearance

Description


1

Initial

Warlord's outpost (UNC: The Negotiation)


2

Initial

Crashed probe (salvage: High Electronics)


3

Initial

Mercenary outpost (UNC: Asari Writings, UNC: Locate Signs of Battle, salvage)
Judging by the footprints in the ash, the two mercenaries were facing each other over the crate when they died. Both suffered single gunshot wounds and have a rifle close beside them.
Prying open the crate, you discover a carefully wrapped, handwritten copy of one of Matriarch Dilinaga's treatises. It is unlikely she penned it herself, but the flowing brushwork and intricate watercolor illustrations clearly show the hand of a master scribe.
This mercenary was carrying a League of One medallion. There's no indication of how or where he found it.


4

Unmarked

Thresher Maw


5

Unmarked

Thresher Maw


Mineral Deposits[]

Main article: UNC: Valuable Minerals


Location

Element

Class


1

Titanium

Light


2

Samarium

Rare


Lifeforms[]
Darius Retainer
Lord Darius
Thresher Maws
Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Special Ops Team Zeta
Properties[]
Nonuel's terrain features streams of lava that could incinerate even vehicles like the Mako. The titanium deposit at the northern end of the traversable map and both thresher maw encounters are outside of mission boundaries; they can still be dealt with but not without some nagging to turn back from Joker.

Trivia[]
The Mercenary outpost tells the story of two persons fighting to the death regardless of the harshness of the planet. This may be a reference to the 1985 sci-fi movie Enemy Mine which features a similar plot on a volcanic planet.
Interestingly, if one scans the northern deposit of titanium, the message will state: "Scans from orbit have revealed a large quantity of Titanium" despite surveying the mineral on foot. This also leads to the deposit not showing on the map after survey.
If viewed in Mass Effect 3, the planet appears to be entirely blue and covered by water. This seems to conflict with the in-game description of the planet as an uninhabitable volcanic world.
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition lava hazards were ostensibly changed so that touching them in the M35 Mako would not cause instant death as it did in the original Mass Effect. For whatever reason, the lava lake on Nonuel still causes instant Game Over if driven into, though lightly grazing it with the wheels or edge of the vehicle is sometimes possible without taking any damage.
Bug[]
The surveyed deposit of samarium can be seen on the small radar but may fail to register on the larger map.



