


The Alliance has found the wreckage of the SSV Normandy on the planet Alchera. They have asked that a monument be placed on the site and any sign of the remaining 20 missing crew members recovered.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Flashbacks
2.2 The Fallen
2.3 Datapads


3 Email
4 Mission Summary
5 Bugs
6 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Normandy Crash Site

The Normandy's crash site is available automatically from the Cerberus Network as free DLC. When the DLC is installed, after acquiring the Normandy SR-2, Shepard will receive an e-mail from Admiral Hackett titled "Normandy Crash Site Located":




From: Admiral Hackett

Commander Shepard:

Our scans in the Amada system have turned up something we thought you should see: the final location of the wreckage of the SSV Normandy.

We thought this news might be important to you, but we also have an ulterior motive. The Alliance would like to honor the Normandy with a monument, to be built on the site of the ship's final resting place. We'd like to invite you to place the monument and be the first to walk on the site.

There are still 20 crew members unaccounted for from the attack on the Normandy. If you find any signs of these lost crewmen, we ask that you report to the Alliance so that those heroes' families might find some closure.


Godspeed to you, Commander.


Travel to Alchera, Amada System, Omega Nebula, to start the assignment. These assignment notes are displayed after scanning the planet:


“Scans confirm the wreckage of SSV Normandy on the planet's surface. No life signs or mechanical activity detected. Stable landing zone located amid the crash site.”


Walkthrough[]
Exploring the crash site is a solo assignment; there are no hostiles present. As you wander the map, Shepard will experience flashbacks of different areas of the SSV Normandy according to which areas of the wreckage the Commander is walking through. Dog tags will show up as a shining flashing object in the distance and are relatively hard to miss as the pick up option will appear well before you see the dog tag itself. The yellow crates around the map all have dog tags inside; break them open to retrieve the items.
Notable features include the still-intact Mako, the destroyed Galaxy Map amid the wreckage of the CIC, a section of the port armour plating with "Normandy" still visible, the sleeper pod compartment, a section of the cockpit, and an upright escape pod.
Near the remains of the Galaxy Map, a datapad can be found that belonged to Navigator Pressly, who was killed during the attack on the Normandy. It details his initial disdain for having so many aliens onboard, though the third and final entry notes how his opinions have changed and how he would gladly give his life for any of the aliens. Shepard's lost N7 helmet is also on the assignment premises; if found, it will be located on the desk in your quarters aboard the Normandy SR-2.
There are also four containers of element zero, totalling to 500 units. One is located southeast of the shuttle, next to some debris resembling an arch. Another is west of the Mako, close to the dog tag of Barrett, Germeen. A third container is east of the Mako, on some higher ground with a yellow crate where you can find the dog tag of Waaberi, Amina. The final container is east of escape pod, near another yellow crate which houses the dog tag of Tucks, Carlton.

Bakari, Jamin dog tag: behind the escape podBarrett, Germeen dog tag: in frozen snowy ground in front of the Mako's gun, near a refined eezo boxChase, Addison dog tag: in the ruins of the CIC Galaxy Map, near Pressly's datapadCrosby, Silas dog tag: right below the Mako's noseDraven, Rosamund dog tag: on some rocks behind the shuttleDraven, Talitha dog tag: inside the ruins of the cockpit, near the airlockDubyansky, Alexei dog tag: inside the ruins of the mess hallEmerson, Hector dog tag: alone on the ice pass cliff farthest from any ship ruinsFelawa, Robert dog tag: next to a fallen terminal between the Mako and the shuttleGladstone, Harvey J. dog tag: on rocky ground one step below the CICGrenado, Caroline dog tag: on some rocks near the shuttleGrieco, Marcus dog tag: inside the yellow crate between the Mako and the ruins of the crew sleeper podsLaflamme, Orden dog tag: inside one of the sleeper podsLowe, Helen M. dog tag: outside the ruins of the mess hall, near the cliffNegulesco, Monica dog tag: on frozen rocks next to the ruins of the sleeper podsPakti, Abishek dog tag: below the ruins of the Normandy's outer hullRahman, Mandira dog tag: on the rocky ground between the shuttle and the escape pod, near the cockpit ruinsTanaka, Raymond dog tag: inside the yellow crate between the ruins of the sleeper pods, the ruins of the mess hall, and the ruins of the outer hullTucks, Carlton dog tag: inside the yellow crate behind the escape pod, near a refined eezo boxWaaberi, Amina dog tag: inside the yellow crate on elevated rocky ground near the Mako, next to a refined eezo boxN7 helmet - on elevated rocky ground near the escape pod, reachable via a single path from the CIC ruins1/21
At some point during the assignment, you must place a monument on the grounds. After placing the monument, regardless of collecting the other items, you may return to your shuttle to complete the mission.
Note:  It is possible to return to the planet to recover the missing dog tags and/or the helmet, but the Mission Summary screen will not be displayed again. After planting the first monument, you can return and replant the monument anywhere that you are allowed.

Flashbacks[]
There are a few places where Shepard will pause for a minute and experience a flashback to the SR-1.
Normandy Text: The flashback will show the SSV Normandy docked at the Citadel in Dock 422.
Cockpit: The flashback will show Joker manning the controls and behind him, the CIC and Galaxy Map.
Sleeper Pods: Shows the sleeper pods as they appeared in Mass Effect with the mess hall in the background.
Mako: The flashback to show the Mako stored in the SSV Normandy's cargo bay.
CIC and Galaxy Map: The flashback will show the Galaxy Map and CIC as they appeared in Mass Effect.
Pressly's Datapad: The flashback will show Navigator Pressly saluting.
Mess Hall: The flashback will show the squad member that was left behind on Virmire in Mass Effect. If it is a new game started in Mass Effect 2 without using the Genesis interactive comic, then the squad member of the same gender as Shepard will be shown.
The Fallen[]



Bakari, Jamin
Barrett, Germeen
Chase, Addison
Crosby, Silas
Draven, Rosamund
Draven, Talitha
Dubyansky, Alexei
Emerson, Hector
Felawa, Robert
Gladstone, Harvey J.
Grenado, Caroline


Grieco, Marcus
Laflamme, Orden
Lowe, Helen M.
Negulesco, Monica
Pakti, Abishek
Pressly, Charles
Rahman, Mandira
Tanaka, Raymond
Tucks, Carlton
Waaberi, Amina




Datapads[]
Three journal entries can be found on a datapad near the CIC; the flashback of Navigator Pressly plays after examining it.
Entry 1:




[UNRECOVERABLE DATA]AA#%SKA--++--?///\1~!!#[DATA RECOVERED]spoke to the Commander about this. I [CORRUPT] all these damned aliens aboard the Alliance's most advanced ship. I just don't trust them. Esp[UNRECOVERABLE DATA]that damned asari. And a quarian! What does Shepard think this is, a zoo?


Entry 2:




[UNRECOVERABLE DATA] TTHAK!@)%$**##)-====@#$(CE)(#(@!~~~~fk3-054%((#@[DATA RECOVERED]with the quarian. It seems she's on some kind of pilgrimage, trying to improve the lot of her home ship. I can understand that. I woul[UNRECOVERABLE DATA] babysit my children or anything, but if she has to be on board, I suppose that's not too bad.


Entry 3:




[UNRECOVERABLE DATA]########%%(#())ffaerlkj2!222*@()#!!!!||||==/11!13$$[DATA RECOVERED]for a while now, and I'm taking a look back at past entries in this journal. I [UNRECOVERABLE DATA] how blind I was at the time. I came on this ship firmly believing humanity was on its own in the galaxy,[CORRUPT]Shepard brought all these aliens on board, and there's no way we could have accomplished what we did without them. I am proud to say [CORRUPT]die for any member of this crew, regardless of what world they were born on.


Email[]
After the completion of the assignment, provided that at least one dog tag has been recovered, you will receive this e-mail, titled "Normandy Crash Site Data Received":




From: Admiral Hackett

Commander Shepard:


The Alliance was grateful to receive the information you found at the Normandy's crash site, and we've sent it out to the affected families. By finding those dog tags, you have provided peace of mind for a lot of people, Commander. I thank you on their behalf.


Mission Summary[]
There are four possible outcomes for this assignment, depending on whether Shepard found all dog tags and whether the N7 helmet has been recovered:
All dog tags and N7 helmet recovered: A monument has been placed at the last resting place of the SSV Normandy on Alchera and the families of all missing crew members have been notified of their ultimate sacrifice.
Shepard's lost N7 Helmet was recovered.
All dog tags recovered; N7 helmet not found: A monument has been placed at the last resting place of the SSV Normandy on Alchera and the families of all missing crew members have been notified of their ultimate sacrifice.
Not all dog tags found; N7 helmet recovered: A monument has been placed at the last resting place of the SSV Normandy on Alchera. The Alliance still seeks any sign of the remaining crew members lost when the ship was destroyed.
Shepard's lost N7 Helmet was recovered.
Not all dog tags found; N7 helmet not found: A monument has been placed at the last resting place of the SSV Normandy on Alchera. The Alliance still seeks any sign of the remaining crew members lost when the ship was destroyed.

Experience reward: 10 (12) for each dog tag found, up to 200 (240) total
Credits: 3,750
Alliance Funding: 3,750
Credits Found: 0
Minerals:
Element Zero: 500
Bugs[]
The mission summary screen may inaccurately report a Geth Shield Strength upgrade and a Tech Damage upgrade. These are not able to be researched.
On PC the text shows press F to place the monument. However, this does not work if the melee key has been remapped. Press the key bound for melee in order to place the monument.
In Legendary Edition, this bug has been fixed.
Trivia[]
The names of all the crew who died on the SR1 will be displayed on the memorial wall that will be located on the SR2's crew deck when it is repurposed by the Alliance in Mass Effect 3. All the names will appear, regardless of the number of dog tags recovered. Furthermore, the names mentioned will appear even if this assignment has not been completed.



