







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




The Northern Holding Site is a kett facility used to sort, analyze, and incarcerate angaran prisoners on Voeld. It also serves as a control center for shuttle operations on- and offworld. It is located a considerable distance slightly northeast of the Angaran Resistance Base, past mountainous terrain and numerous kett encampments.
The camp is heavily guarded and able to call on swift dropship reinforcements to repel intruders. Pathfinder Ryder can assault the base twice, or once if two missions converge in this location at the same time. In either case, the kett do not regain their foothold here afterward and the camp subsequently becomes abandoned after the liberation of Niilj and his Resistance team.

Layout[]
The site is on relatively flat terrain, with a shallow dug depression marking its boundaries. Most of it is exposed to the freezing cold except for the limited warmth provided by multiple heaters.
It has three main structures. One appears to be a supply depot, composed mostly of numerous stacked crates. The central building has climate-controlled living quarters, computer workstations, and other miscellaneous tech. The third one is a raised platform for receiving ships.
Captive angara are penned in small individual cells, with their deactivation controls just outside the cells. Their placement along edges is apparently designed for ease of transport by one of the kett's vertically-oriented fighter craft.

Missions[]



Priority Ops
Stage a Rescue†


Heleus Assignments
Meet the Family
Stage a Rescue†


Additional Tasks
Task: Clearing the Air

† One or the other depending on completion of Helping Havarl's Scientists

Datapads and Terminals[]
On a cage atop the central building:




I'm sorry
Have to be brief. The kett took our equipment away, but they missed this data device. Interface is awkward, but it'll do.

They caught us at Eroesk. We stayed longer than we should've, hoping it would give others a chance. When you left, you told me not to do anything that would get me hurt. But when the alert came, I couldn't get on that shuttle. I wouldn't be able to live knowing I could've done more. That would've been the deeper hurt.

So I have done what you asked, though not quite in the way you intended, and I am sorry to put you through this.


Be well, my heart, and may the stars always shine bright for you.



On a terminal inside the central building:




Update From Prefect/Voeld
Devoted,
Our attempts to release the repugnant angaran AI from their frozen city are behind schedule.

Archon continues to instruct me to capture it and not to destroy it.

More slaves are required. The frequency of raids will be increased.


That is all.







Detainee Group #6019
Acquisition: Acquired in raid of settlement "Eroesk."

Physical analysis: COMPLETE
Genetic analysis: COMPLETE
Summary: three chosen

Additional comments:

Civilian group. One soldier. Remaining six were distributed to various facilities to assist in our efforts.







Detainee Group #6025
Acquisition: Acquired in ambush 

Physical analysis: COMPLETE
Genetic analysis: COMPLETE
Summary: zero chosen 

Additional comments:

Failed group of five. All Resistance soldiers. Expectations unmet.







Detainee Group #6028
Acquisition: Acquired in failed Resistance attack on operations center.

Physical analysis: COMPLETE
Genetic analysis: INCOMPLETE
Summary: Awaiting input…

Additional comments:

Group of five. Resistance soldiers. Unyielding. Great promise.





