




Noveria

Region
Milky Way / Horse Head Nebula / Pax





Planet View


Orbital Distance
0.9 AU


Orbital Period
0.9 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.9


Radius
5,656 km


Day Length
52.0 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.87 atm


Surface Temp
−1 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.81 g


Mass
0.63 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Horse Head Nebula / Pax System /  Second planet


Colony

Capital
Port Hanshan


Colony Founded
2163


Population
361,400 (2183)405,200 (2186)



Prerequisite: Priority: Sur'Kesh (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description

1.1 Mass Effect
1.2 Mass Effect 3


2 Codex Entry
3 Additional Information
4 Missions

4.1 Mass Effect
4.2 Mass Effect 3


5 Assignments
6 Trivia


Description[]
Mass Effect[]
Noveria is a small, frozen terrestrial world, barely habitable by conventional definitions. It is privately chartered by the Noveria Development Corporation, who lease out labs to perform research too dangerous or controversial to be performed elsewhere. Given Noveria's unique situation, it is the source of many wild conspiracy theories.

Mass Effect 3[]
Noveria is a small, frozen terrestrial world, barely habitable by conventional definitions. It is privately chartered by the Noveria Development Corporation, who lease out labs to perform research too dangerous or controversial to be performed elsewhere.
The war has brought significant attention to this otherwise obscure planet. Noveria is home to some of the most advanced research in the galaxy, a sure magnet for Cerberus interest. Further, Noveria's mass relay is the stop between the humans' Exodus Cluster and the beginning of salarian space. It is a safe bet that the salarians will defend their borders to the utmost.

Codex Entry[]





Audio: Noveriahttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Noveria_Codex.ogg

Noveria is a cool, rocky world, with most of its hydrosphere locked up in massive glaciers. A privately-chartered colony world, the planet is owned by the Noveria Development Corporation holding company. The NDC is funded by investment capital from two dozen high technology development firms, and administrated by an Executive Board representing their interests.
The investors built remote hot labs in isolated locations across Noveria’s surface. These facilities are used for research too dangerous or controversial to be performed elsewhere, as Noveria is technically not part of Citadel space and therefore exempt from Council law.
By special arrangement, Citadel Special Tactics and Reconnaissance agents have been granted extraterritorial privileges, but it remains to be seen how committed the Executive Board is to that principle. Given its unique situation, it is understandable that Noveria is often implicated in all manner of wild conspiracy theories.


Additional Information[]
Noveria features the Skadi Mountains, where the isolated lab Peak 15 is situated in, and the Aleutsk Valley, a pass between Port Hanshan and Peak 15. Locales known to Noverian denizens include a resort at the equator that provides amenities like accredited asajura fields and caters to other leisure activities like bouncebacking and diving.
Aside from sapient races, known lifeforms on the planet include nathak.

Missions[]
Mass Effect[]
Mission: Noveria: Contamination
Mission: Noveria: Geth Interest
Mission: Noveria: Lorik Qui'in
Mission: Noveria: Matriarch Benezia
Mission: Noveria: Peak 15
Mission: Noveria: Quarantine
Mission: Noveria: Reactor Repair
Mission: Noveria: Reconnect Landlines
Mission: Noveria: Rift Station
Mission: Noveria: The Hot Labs
Mass Effect 3[]
Mission: N7: Cerberus Fighter Base
Mission: Citadel: Heating Unit Stabilizers
Assignments[]
Assignment: Noveria: Espionage
Assignment: Noveria: Smuggling
Trivia[]
According to BioWare, the name "Noveria" was derived from "Nova Siberia" (New Siberia).
Early in Mass Effect's development, Noveria was depicted to be under planetary bombardment from an unknown aggressor. Shepard's crew picks up transmissions for aid, but opts to ignore it instead for a mission to Caleston.
In The Art of the Mass Effect Universe, it was stated Noveria was to have a lower alpine region, which was cut as it apparently made players think they were on another planet.
The Mass Effect 3 multiplayer map Firebase White is located on Noveria.
Noveria is a mission location in the N7 HQ Galaxy at War mini-game for Mass Effect 3.



