


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 







Nozomi Dunn
Ark Captain

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Captain Nozomi Dunn commands the ark Hyperion of the Andromeda Initiative.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Five years prior to helming Hyperion out of the Milky Way, Dunn was skeptical of the Initiative's pitch to settle the eponymous galaxy and would have laughed at anyone trying to convince her otherwise. However, she did love being a captain and was inevitably taken in at the allure of exploring new frontiers.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Following the arrival of the Hyperion at Habitat 7 and its subsequent rub against the ominous energy cloud, Dunn argues with Alec Ryder over their next course of action, with Dunn believing that attempting to land on the planet would be a mistake. She later guides the Hyperion during its docking with the Nexus.
As captain, Dunn's duties would normally require her to supervise thawing out the colonists once the Hyperion is docked with the Nexus. However, supply issues with the Nexus put that on hold for the moment, and Pathfinder Ryder would have to deal with it before she can do anything.
Captain Dunn can be found during the Hyperion's kett hijacking, fending off several of the hostile aliens before Pathfinder Ryder's sibling comes to her aid. Dunn would, in turn, distract the kett as he/she made their way to SAM node.
The Archon would later capture Dunn along with the Hyperion, abandoning the ship at Meridian while causing catastrophic damage to its systems. As the Hyperion begins to fall from the sky, Dunn ordered all of the Hyperion's crewmembers to their stasis pods and redirected all power to their medbay inertials. Meanwhile, Dunn stayed on the bridge to land the ark. Dunn would go down with the ark in an attempt to save it, with her fate ultimately depending on the rescued Pathfinders.

Fate[]
Dunn's survival requires all three non-human Pathfinders to work together. The salarian Pathfinder's cooperation is assured regardless of who currently holds the role.
If the asari Pathfinder is Vederia Damali, or Sarissa Theris's secret was kept, they will work to protect Dunn. However, if Sarissa was disgraced but kept her title, Ryder must approach her, apologize, and ask for her help with securing Meridian. Otherwise, she will be unwilling to help.
There is no turian Pathfinder if Avitus Rix was not convinced to take on the role; in this case, Dunn's survival is impossible.
Should all three non-human Pathfinders work together, the Asari Pathfinder is able to get close enough to the crashing Hyperion and biotically shield the ark's bridge—thus saving Dunn's life. 
If there is not enough Pathfinder support for this endeavor, there is no signal from the bridge after the ark's crash and Dunn is killed. She is later memorialised on the new Port Meridian which states her body was committed to the stars.  Her coffin can be found as an anomaly afloat in the Govorkam system.




