







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.











Nyxeris
Observer

Race
Asari


Gender
Feminine


Appearances
Mass Effect 2


Nyxeris is an assistant to Liara T'Soni on Illium. Secretly, Nyxeris is an agent of the Shadow Broker, known as the Observer. 
As part of her cover duties Nyxeris minds the door outside Liara's office. She provides her nominal boss with supplemental data, claiming it's an honor to work with her. She's impressed with Liara's rise among the information broker community, claiming Liara could wield more political power if she wasn't focused on her personal goals, though she cuts off her assessment as she believes Liara should be the one to tell Commander Shepard that.
As the Observer, Nyxeris is ruthless but pragmatic in dealing with her enemies. Scattered logs indicate she has no qualms issuing kill orders and framing her associates for it, but will rescind them if there's a benefit.
During Shepard's assignment for Liara to investigate the Observer, her true identity can be revealed or she may stay undercover due to lack of evidence. If Shepard tells Liara that the Observer is a female she will call Nyxeris into her office. The next time Shepard goes to visit Liara, she mentions that she killed Nyxeris, saying that "her barriers needed practice. Practice I'm afraid she won't be getting." Liara had a high opinion of her talents though, claiming if Nyxeris had been ordered to assassinate her she would have never seen it coming.

Trivia[]
Nyxeris' name is a combination of the names of Nyx and Eris, the Greek goddesses of night and discord, respectively.
With the release of the Lair of the Shadow Broker, it is possible to tell Liara the relevant intel, causing her to return home, before having completed the The Observer assignment. In this case, near the end of Shepard and Liara's conversation, Nyxeris walks off screen (never to be seen again), and the journal updates to report the mission as complete.



