


The Oculus is a fast-moving device used by the Reapers as a space and atmospheric superiority craft. They were first seen being used by the Collectors to protect the Collector Base. 
Oculi are cybernetic constructs, being piloted (in the case of those used by the Collectors) by a single Collector drone. Each drone is stripped down until only its nervous system remains, with the remaining tissue hardened to withstand vacuum and integration into an Oculus shell.
Oculi possess powerful beam weapons, similar to other Reaper and Collector weaponry, and can invade an enemy ship by cutting into its hull after jettisoning part of its armor.

Contents

1 Mass Effect 2

1.1 Capabilities
1.2 Tactics


2 Mass Effect 3
3 Trivia
4 References









“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]







Oculus




Type
Synthetic


Faction
Collectors


Armament
Particle Beam Weapon


Abilities
None


Armor
Very High


Locations
Tartarus Debris Field


The Normandy SR-2 is attacked by several Oculi when attempting to reach the Collector Base. The Oculi were apparently left on guard in the local debris field and only activated as the Normandy approached. While most of the Oculi are destroyed by the Normandy's weapons or by accidentally flying into debris, one is able to penetrate the ship's hangar deck, losing its outer shell in the process. It is eventually destroyed by Commander Shepard.
It is likely that the Collectors gained the Oculus technology from the Reapers.
The Oculus' particle beam is strong enough to slice through a hull without Heavy Ship Armor, and can potentially kill Jack if the Normandy lacks the upgrade.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
The Oculus' beam weapon is much stronger than an ordinary particle beam, and will blast away any shields or barriers in a moment, especially on higher difficulties. It fires its weapon in very long bursts, thus anything longer than a brief exposure to this weapon could be fatal.
Defensive
The Oculus has an incredibly strong armor, which acts as its health.

Tactics[]
Shooting the red "eye" causes more damage than shooting the silver shell.
Standard weapons with high armor damage bonuses (such as the M-98 Widow, M-92 Mantis, M-5 Phalanx or M-6 Carnifex) are effective, if a little time consuming and dangerous. Your squad will continually comment that it will take heavy weapons to succeed, but it can be done with pistols if that's the way you want to go.
The ML-77 Missile Launcher or M-100 Grenade Launcher can be risky as they cause friendly fire damage and the numerous explosive crates and canisters in the cargo bay can be set off causing an additional hazard to Shepard's team. The Missile Launcher is fairly effective as it does not require any line of sight and the missiles will automatically home in on the Oculus regardless of where they are fired as it is the only enemy target.
The M-920 Cain is time-efficient but extremely risky as its explosion can easily kill you in close proximity.
The Collector Particle Beam and M-451 Firestorm do high damage, but you are highly exposed to the Oculus' own particle beam, which is not recommended on higher difficulties.
Heavy weapon ammo will be completely refilled to 100% capacity at the start of the next mission (along with medi-gel), and there are also power cells that can be picked up around the cargo bay so conserving ammunition isn't a concern.
Powers such as Incinerate, Warp, Reave and/or Incendiary Ammo are very good in stripping away its armor. Most biotic powers (except for Warp and Reave) are ineffective. Incinerate and Warp are especially useful as they can arc around cover minimizing exposure.
The three "shield" powers (Geth Shield Boost, Fortification, and Barrier) are immensely helpful in protecting yourself while fighting the Oculus, especially during brief moments you are open to its fire when changing cover locations.
The Oculus is unaffected by Stasis.
The Oculus can see through Tactical Cloak and will target Shepard even while cloaked, making the power only useful for its damage boost.
The Oculus remains single-mindedly focused on Shepard during the initial stages of the fight, but eventually will switch targets to your squadmates. When this happens it can be very difficult to keep them alive, but as noted above medi-gel will be freely refilled following the fight so just revive them.
While the Oculus remains focused on you, it can be a good idea to explicitly order your squadmates out of cover into the open as far away from you as possible to prevent them from getting in your way as you carefully hug cover to prevent exposure to the particle beam. They won't be in danger until the fight progresses to where the Oculus decides to fry them instead.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3[]
Oculi are deployed en masse by the Reapers during their 2186 invasion, serving as atmospheric and exoatmospheric fighters and interceptors. Several Oculi can be seen during the initial attack on Earth, attacking Alliance fighters and A-61 Mantis Gunships. Squadrons are also seen in action over Palaven and later during the battle to retake Earth. 
No Oculus directly engaged Shepard during the war, in contrast to the Normandy incursion earlier.

Trivia[]
Oculus is Latin for 'eye'.
The center of a Destroyer's primary beam weapon is identical to an Oculus.
The Oculus' design was based on a stereo speaker, and the reference for the eye was HAL 9000.[1]
References[]

↑ The Art of the Mass Effect Universe




Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




