







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.





Old Pelaav is a decrepit daar within the Ancient Courtyard on Havarl. It used to be the original angaran settlement in the area, until the jungle overran it and forced its inhabitants westward. It modern times the Roekaar have turned it into a staging ground for their activities, confident that the residents of Pelaav Research Station will remain unaware of their presence.
The camp lies atop a cliff at the easternmost end of the Ancient Courtyard. A series of walkway stairs connect it to the ground as well as some Remnant pillars usable by people with jumpjets. While most of the camp has been reclaimed by the jungle, a few structures remain serviceable enough for watchtower surveillance or even command center functionalities. Illumination is scant in the area, with solar heaters and light posts barely penetrating the plant cover and general gloom.
During the mission to reverse Havarl's decline, Pathfinder Ryder eliminates the Roekaar presence in Old Pelaav except its leader Taavos. The camp becomes abandoned and remains so after the reset of the world's vault.

Missions[]



Heleus Assignments
A Dying Planet
A Lost Sister


Additional Tasks
Task: Roekaar Manifestos

Datapads[]
Main article: Task: Roekaar Manifestos
Terminals[]



Received Message: A New Alien
Taavos: 

You've heard of the new aliens? They show interest in the Remnant, just like the kett. The Remnant is very important to Havarl. To all angara. The alien must not be permitted to sabotage that technology. I need you to go to the monoliths. If the aliens seek the Remnant there, you and your men must stop them.

Hide in the old daar of Pelaav. The jungle has reclaimed it, but perhaps some structures might yet stand. The researchers that have taken over the landing zone will not find you. They are soft. They will not venture far from their station.

-Akksul









Received Message: A Traitor
One of our own has joined with the alien. If you see him, do not hesitate to let him know what the Roekaar think of this betrayal.

Akksul









Received Message: Not Yet
Taavos:

I am not surprised to hear the scientists are working with the alien. No, do not move against them. They are still our people.

I will have to think on this.

Akksul







