






This article is about the mission in Mass Effect 2. For the mission in Mass Effect 3: Omega, see Omega: Aria T'Loak (Mass Effect 3).


Aria T'Loak, ruler of Omega, wants all important new arrivals to pay their respects to her at Afterlife. She may be a valuable source of information.

Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Freedom's Progress (mission)

This mission is acquired automatically the first time Commander Shepard arrives at Omega. A batarian mercenary who works for Aria, named Moklan, will instruct you to meet with Aria as soon as possible.

Walkthrough[]

This is one of the first missions Commander Shepard can receive should you decide to first go to the Omega station. Upon docking, a salarian named Fargut initially tries greeting Shepard and attempts to ingratiate himself with your company. He's interrupted in the process by Moklan, who muscles him out of the way, and instructs you to pay a visit to the asari Aria T'Loak. Both Fargut and Moklan have no further interactions with Shepard afterwards.
As you enter the front door of the Afterlife club, past an elcor bouncer, you may be accosted by a batarian named Kylan and his cohorts, who seem to be looking for trouble; dealing with them can earn you some morality points.
Aria resides at the top of the platform on the far side of the main area of Afterlife, accessible from stairs on both sides. Simply approach her to trigger a conversation.
Her guards will try to scan you, because Aria needs to verify if you're really Shepard and not some impostor with the Commander's face. Morality points are available if you resist the scans and after she tells you about Omega's one rule. After that, she sits down, and she beckons you to do the same. You may ask questions about Omega and the dossiers, or end the meeting. Don't worry, she isn't going anywhere, you can still ask your questions by talking to her again. 
After the initial meet and greet, the mission will be completed. 
Note:  While technically not part of this mission, you need to speak with Aria in order to advance Dossier: Archangel, the recruitment mission for Archangel. This mission ensures you do, because Aria points you to the relevant people to speak further with regarding that mission. It is not required to talk with Aria to advance Dossier: The Professor.




