


Mordin's assistant, Daniel, has gone missing in vorcha territory. Mordin would be grateful if the assistant could be located.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough
3 Enemies
4 Mission Summary
5 Bugs


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Dossier: The Professor

After heading into the lower levels and the slums of Omega you will eventually end up in Mordin's hospital where he will mention his missing assistant and asks you to look for him while curing the area of the plague.

Walkthrough[]

Following your exit from the clinic, a major skirmish room against krogan and vorcha, and a hackable bank terminal, Daniel can be found beyond a door along the way to environmental controls. He is being held up by some particularly shady-looking batarians. 
How the encounter ends is up to Shepard and your decisions. Using Charm or Intimidate will convince the batarians that Daniel is trying to help cure the plague. They'll let Daniel go, and you can either let them walk or express distrust. If you don't trust the batarians, they'll turn hostile but they'll get killed offscreen while Daniel covers his eyes.
If you don't care for the initial Charm or Intimidate options, using either of the upper two options result in one more chance to Charm or Intimidate your way to a peaceful resolution. If you still don't want to use them, or if you simply want to take the aggressive tack by signalling your henchmen, the batarians just shoot Daniel. They then turn hostile and you have to kill them manually.
The assignment is marked complete once Daniel leaves the scene or is killed. There's a med kit in the room if you need it, and if Daniel died you can examine his corpse for some comments from your squadmates.
If Daniel lives, he returns to the clinic with opinions on how you resolved the situation. Later he will send Shepard an email explaining the situation and how it has improved at the Clinic on Omega.  Saving Daniel also grants experience points which are not awarded if he is killed. 

Enemies[]
Batarian (optional)
Mission Summary[]
Experience reward: 40 (50)
Bugs[]
There is a glitch (found on the PC version) that might cause one of the batarians to freeze in his place and become invulnerable. Reloading from a prior save is the best solution if this persists.




