







The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.



Oronath
Throw Down Medic

Race
Hanar


Appearances
Mass Effect (cut)


Oronath is a character who was cut during the development of Mass Effect. He was Throw Down's medical doctor on Caleston.
Oronath has a somehow small and poorly-equipped office on Throw Down Plaza, the result of the original medical bay having been bought by Smiley to serve as private residence. After making a deal with the station's owner, the Eldfell-Ashland Energy corporation, it was decided to relocate Oronath to a much smaller building.[1]
When dealing with Shepard, Oronath is still able to provide medical assistance, though he will often apologize for the inappropriate equipment. If Shepard asks about Liara T'Soni, he will say he hasn't seen her in some time and may offer a rather long monologue about the religion of the Enkindlers, on the subject of Prothean ruins. During a job for Fred Mazzei, Shepard may come to Oronath to collect the money he owes the Union. Oronath can be found in the middle of a dilemma: a number of Union and Cartel men have amassed near him, requesting that their own lethally wounded man be treated instead of the rival gang's. Shepard may have to pick a side, which will make the other one hostile, or use Charm or Intimidate to make everyone realize Oronath is able to save both. Oronath will say his thanks if the latter was done. Regarding Fred's issue, Oronath claims he has no money at all, and Shepard may either propose to pay the 100 credits he owes in his stead, or have Oronath provide medi-gel packs to sell to Kar Kath to obtain the money.[2]
In the aftermath of the conflict between the Union and the Cartel, after Smiley was eliminated, Shepard may inform Oronath that he's free to return to the real medical bay for practicing, for which the hanar will be very grateful.

Trivia[]
As a hanar, Oronath would have exhibited two unique traits in the series: he is colored blue, not purple like all other hanar, and he has a female-sounding voice; however everyone on Caleston refers to Oronath with male pronouns.
References[]

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Help Fred Voicelines#lav20_oronath (1)

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Help Fred Voicelines#lav20_trig20_oronath_besieged





