


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
Outcasts are an Outlaw faction led by former Nexus Security Director Sloane Kelly. Based on Kadara Port, the Outcasts run protection rackets on people under their rule as well as piratical raids on clusterwide shipping.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
See also: Codex: Outlaws: Outcasts
The Outcasts are all handpicked by Sloane, either due to having potential or existing history with her. According to their official recruiting pitch, prospective members undergo a series of trials that test their endurance, loyalty, and intellect.
After they left the Nexus, they began raiding kett convoys and trading with angaran villages when supplies ran low. From the angara the Outcasts learned about Kadara Port. They had run-ins with Roekaar, though for the most part the angara weren't hostile to the Outcasts.
When Sloane's faction landed on Kadara, the kett on Kadara Port were rounding up angara like animals and shipping them off elsewhere. With the element of surprise by their side the Outcasts managed to push off the invaders, earning the gratitude of the locals. The Outcasts then instituted a simple but brutal system: anyone can stay in Kadara Port, as long as their "protection fees" are paid. Infractions and crimes against the peace will be dealt with severely and often in creative ways, like heads on spikes around landing pads to serve as a warning.
Some people didn't like the system, and therefore came to join rival Outlaw factions like the Collective that seek to undermine Sloane's authority and ultimately supplant her as ruler of Kadara Port.

Resources[]
The Outcasts take majority of the resources that Kadara Port brings in while the rest get scraps. This is a point of contention that made them a lot of enemies even among exiles.

Troop Varieties[]
Adhi
Agent
Anarchist
Berserker
Raider
Pariah
Saboteur
Sharpshooter



