


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
Outlaws are exiles from the Andromeda Initiative who left the Nexus to live by the barrel of a gun. Highly aggressive, on untamed worlds they almost always shoot first and ask questions later when someone stumbles upon their affairs.

Contents

1 Background
2 Notable Outlaw Factions
3 Resources

3.1 Troop Varieties
3.2 Weaponry




Background[]
See also: Codex: Outlaws
Following the departure of disgruntled Initiative personnel from the Nexus, several groupings emerged as the exiles scattered throughout Heleus to seek their fortunes. Outlaws are those who opted to arm themselves as protection against the elements and each other, since not all exiles chose the military/mercenary life.


Notable Outlaw Factions[]
Outlaws can be differentiated by the color schemes and sigils on their armor. Unaffiliated Outlaws typically dress in logoless red.

Collective - A shadowy band of smugglers aiming to take control of Kadara Port from the Outcasts. Led by an entity only known as the Charlatan.
Outcasts - A warband entrenched on Kadara Port under the leadership of Sloane Kelly.
The Three Sabers - mercenaries hired by the Initiative to protect their supply convoys moving to and from their newly-founded outposts, only to betray their employers and raid the very vessels they were supposed to protect.
Resources[]
The Outlaws compensate for their limitations with resourcefulness, ruthlessness, and a wide array of combat styles and methodologies drawn from the diverse species in their ranks.

Troop Varieties[]
Adhi
Agent
Anarchist
Berserker
Hydra
Raider
Pariah
Saboteur
Sharpshooter
Weaponry[]
Shorty




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




