


Outposts are the first steps of the colonization effort of the Andromeda Initiative in Heleus Cluster. They are installed at a safe location when a Pathfinder has made a Golden world more viable by improving its environment. Outposts are comprised of multiple modular buildings that are dropped from orbit by the Nexus. They act as a base of operations and space port on a planet for the needs of the Initiative. 
Organization[]
Andromeda Initiative colonists are divided into "blocks" that are assigned to outposts. These blocks represent a diverse range of individuals and skillsets who can establish and start running an outpost: agricultural experts, civil engineers, scientists, miners, construction crews, medics, and other specialists that the outpost's location may require. When a suitable site is found, the Nexus wakes the appropriate block members from their cryogenic stasis and sends them to the location along with "first-in" colonist materials.
The early arrivals are responsible for constructing the first pre-fab buildings and establishing ISRU (in-situ resource utilization) processors. They use Pathfinder surveys to locate food, water, and mineral deposits, while others guard the fledgling outpost against local predators or hostiles as needed. Meanwhile, scientists and medical staff ensure that the outpost's colonists are healthy and begin to study the local ecology.
Every colonist has a diverse skillset. An individual may have specific qualifications as an engineer, but the Initiative also provides basic training in other disciplines — including self-defense, first aid, and survival skills — to cover a versatile over-specialization.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Outposts In Heleus Cluster[]
When planets reach a minimum of 40% viability level, and certain specific conditions with the local inhabitants are met, Pathfinder Ryder may select a suitable location to launch the deployment of an outpost .
During Ryder's exploration of Heleus Cluster, the following planets can be made viable for outposts:

Elaaden - Combined outpost and colony named New Tuchanka completed after Settling Elaaden. See: Elaaden Outpost.
Eos - Outpost named Prodromos completed after A Better Beginning.
Kadara - Outpost named Ditaeon completed after Settling Kadara
Voeld - Outpost named Taerve Uni completed after Settling Voeld.



