






This article is about the Mass Effect 2 DLC. For the Cerberus project, see Project Overlord. For the soundtrack, see Mass Effect 2: Overlord.


Overlord is a DLC pack for Mass Effect 2. The pack includes four new missions that take place on the planet Aite where an experimental Virtual Intelligence hybrid has gone rogue. Overlord was released on June 15, 2010.[1]

Contents

1 Description
2 Content
3 Pricing
4 References


Description[]
When sent to investigate a Cerberus research base that's mysteriously gone silent, Shepard arrives to find geth overrunning the base. The sole survivor, Chief Scientist Archer, paints a dire picture: an experiment to fuse a human volunteer with a virtual intelligence created a dangerous hybrid "VI overlord". The rampaging VI has already attacked three other Cerberus bases, controlling any technology it finds in an attempt to break free--and unleashing geth across the planet. Unless Shepard can infiltrate the VI's fortress and shut it down, this homicidal intelligence will beam itself-off [sic] planet and wreak havoc on other systems. The action unfolds over five new level areas, with two new achievements[2].

Content[]
Four assignments:
Overlord
Galaxy Map: Investigate Project Overlord
Overlord: Vulcan Station
Overlord: Prometheus Station
Overlord: Atlas Station
One location:
The Typhon System located in The Phoenix Massing cluster.
One vehicle:
The M-44 Hammerhead, a hover tank used for planetary exploration on hostile worlds (added only if the Firewalker Pack has not been downloaded already).
One upgrade:
Heavy Skin Weave, bringing the total available to 6 and increasing the maximum health bonus from upgrades to +60%.
Pricing[]
Overlord is available for $6.99 USD on Xbox 360 and 560 BioWare Points on PC. It is included on the disc of the PlayStation 3 version of Mass Effect 2, and it is also included with Mass Effect Legendary Edition.

References[]

↑ Mass Effect 2 DLC

↑ http://social.bioware.com/page/me2-dlc






Mass Effect 2 Downloadable Content




Promotional

Blood Dragon Armor • Collectors' Weapon and Armor • Inferno Armor  M-29 Incisor Sniper Rifle • Terminus Weapon and Armor


Cerberus Network

Zaeed - The Price of Revenge • Normandy Crash Site  Cerberus Weapon and Armor • Arc Projector • Firewalker Pack


Missions

Kasumi - Stolen Memory • Overlord • Lair of the Shadow Broker • Arrival


Additional Content

Alternate Appearance Packs •  Equalizer Pack • Aegis Pack • Firepower Pack  Mass Effect: Genesis • Recon Operations Pack • N7 Complete Arsenal Bundle




