


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 





“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.





Location: Andromeda / Heleus Cluster / Tafeno

Contents

1 Description
2 Mass Effect: Andromeda
3 Trivia
4 References


Description[]
DATA:

Ark name: Paarchero
Stasis Pod Count: 20,000
Status: Low power standby
ANALYSIS:
Ark Paarchero has survived its encounter with the Verakan intact. It is currently undergoing final system checks before leaving to rendezvous with the Nexus.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
See also: Codex (Mass Effect: Andromeda)/Ships And Vehicles#Ark Paarchero
At some point after the Paarchero's arrival in Heleus, the vessel was captured by the kett and tethered to the Archon's flagship Verakan, where the kett interrogated and experimented on the salarian passengers.
Following an infiltration mission launched by Pathfinder Ryder and their team, the ark is safely rescued from kett forces then escorted back to the Nexus.
Several bits of information scattered aboard Paarchero and the Verakan as well as an anonymous message received by Tempest helmsman Kallo Jath reveal that some of the ark's leadership willingly colluded with the kett and allowed their vessel to be taken. If Ryder investigates these threads, the conspirators explain that they used the situation to secretly learn everything they could about the kett so they can effectively retaliate in the future. Ryder can let the issue slide for secret intelligence on kett, or hunt the conspirators down and let them face justice from their fellow salarians.
Besides its majority-salarian contingent, Paarchero has two batarians among its passengers. They were granted passage on the salarian ark in exchange for turning against their former pirate gang back on the Milky Way. They pledged their particular set of skills - Scrapper and Vanguard - to provide security for salarian colonial interests.

Trivia[]
Pre-release materials[1] and even some cinematics in the released game named the ark as "Parcero". In Colombian slang parcero roughly means "dude", "buddy", or "friend".
References[]

↑ https://twitter.com/macwalterslives/status/804913103368355840





