




Pamyat

Milky Way / Hades Nexus












System View


Stellar Mass
1.00 Sol Mass


Stellar Class
G


Luminosity
N/A


Planets
4


Moons
0


Asteroid Belts
1


Asteroids
0


Objects
0



Prerequisite: Star Chart from Baria Frontiers store or Project Firewalker: Volcano Station (Mass Effect 2)

Prerequisite: Priority: Rannoch (Mass Effect 3)

Pamyat used to be a hotbed of small-scale pirate activity preying on whatever meager resources miners eked out of the system. By late-2184 to early 2185 pirates have apparently been cleansed from the system, an improbable incident likened by spacer Cora Harper to "trying to pick the fleas off a dog with tweezers."
Despite its poor reputation, the system rates highly in terms of resources needed by the Normandy SR-2, as the starship has the tools to reach deposits other miners can't. Iridium is found here in noteworthy amounts.
Conflicting information exists whether the asari or the hanar charted Pamyat first, but the system was decisively first colonized by humans. The hanar were unable to establish ownership when they landed on a planetoid for repairs back in 1879 CE, meaning the Systems Alliance managed to stake a legal claim on the system in 2156 CE. None of its worlds are livable: Dobrovolski's aluminum abundance and other supplies from Sheol ensures no shortage of raw materials for the fabricators that churn out habitats.

Contents

1 Chazov Belt
2 Dobrovolski
3 Komarov
4 Patsayev
5 Volkov
6 Trivia


Chazov Belt[]
Asteroid belt which includes the planet Volkov, an asteroid resembling cat ears at some angles, and the planetoid Quiet Eddy.

Dobrovolski[]
Dobrovolski is the second planet orbiting the star Pamyat.

Main article: Dobrovolski
Komarov[]
Komarov is the first planet orbiting the star Pamyat.

Main article: Komarov
Patsayev[]
Patsayev is the third planet orbiting the star Pamyat.

Main article: Patsayev
Volkov[]
Volkov is the fourth planet orbiting the star Pamyat.

Main article: Volkov
Trivia[]
Pamyat is Russian for "memory." The system's planets are likely named for Soviet cosmonauts who died during spaceflight.  See also the Mass Effect 2 Planetary Exploration Dev Diary.



