






This article is about the outlaw in Mass Effect: Andromeda. For the husk-like enemy from Mass Effect 3: Omega DLC, see Adjutant.



Pariah

 







Faction
Outlaws


Weapons / Attacks
Disciple


Abilities
Backlash


Health
Normal


Shields
Normal


Weak Points
Head


The Pariah is an Outlaw unit. She's one of the mid-tier enemies in Outlaw formations, with one or two of them typically accompanying a group of Raiders and Sharpshooters.

Contents

1 Scanner Information
2 Description
3 Capabilities
4 Tactics
5 Trivia


Scanner Information[]
Outlaw Pariah


DATA:
Classification: Enemy
Origin: Milky Way
ANALYSIS:
A heavily armored, close-range combatant who uses biotics to create a shield and attempt to flank.

Description[]
Even without military training, rogue asari are exceptionally dangerous, as their natural biotic talents mean they are never truly disarmed. These pariahs now sighted in outlaw bands wield their powers in pursuit of plunder and glory. 
Pariahs attack at short range with shotguns designed for asari commando forces, wearing down kinetic barriers in preparation for a biotic-focused attack. For more persistent enemies, many pariahs have mastered a deadly "backlash" technique, generating a shield with near-negative mass that accelerates incoming projectiles back at their foes. 


Capabilities[]
Offensive
Pariahs are armed with Disciple shotguns.

Defensive
Pariahs possess a moderate layer of shields as well as the Backlash ability to protect themselves from attacks to the front. While their Backlash aegis is up, their speed is reduced but bullets and particle beams shot at them ricochet back at the attacker. Note that the aegis will not block melee.

Tactics[]
Pariahs are still vulnerable to melee attacks as well as weapon attacks and powers from the sides and rear while the Backlash Aegis is up.
Tech attacks like Overload and Energy Drain are a good choice to strip away their shields. These have the additional benefit of collapsing the Backlash Aegis in the process, momentarily staggering the Pariah.
Pariahs are extremely aggressive, and will attempt to close on you straightaway. Though not as dangerous in close quarters as Berserkers, it's still advisable to fall back and put some distance between you rather than get pinned in place.
Trivia[]
Prior to Patch 1.08 Pariahs were armored instead of having health and shields.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




