




Patsayev

Region
Milky Way / Hades Nexus / Pamyat





Planet View


Orbital Distance
4.2 AU


Orbital Period
8.6 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
1.002


Radius
6,351 km


Day Length
18.9 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
Trace


Surface Temp
−118 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.0 g


Mass
0.984 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Hades Nexus / Pamyat System /  Third planet

Prerequisite: Star Chart from Baria Frontiers store or Project Firewalker: Volcano Station (Mass Effect 2)

Prerequisite: Priority: Rannoch (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description

1.1 Mass Effect 2
1.2 Mass Effect 3


2 Mineral Deposits
3 Trivia


Description[]
Mass Effect 2[]
A rock planet encased in frozen oceans, Patsayev is notable for the largest written message ever created by a human being. Andrei Kobzar, a disgruntled miner whose fortunes were spent prospecting for eezo, used the mass accelerator cannon of a local mercenary group's A-61 Mantis gunship to carve a 208-kilometer long message in the ice saying "Zdes' nichego net," Russian for "There's nothing here."
The message can easily be seen from space. Ironically, the message itself, intended to discourage future colonists, now draws small tourist crowds.

Mass Effect 3[]
A rock planet encased in frozen oceans, Patsayev was notable for the largest written message ever created by a human being. Andrei Kobzar, a disgruntled miner whose fortunes were spent prospecting for eezo, used the mass accelerator cannon of a local mercenary group's A-61 Mantis gunship to carve a 208-kilometer long message in the ice saying "Zdes' nichego net," Russian for "There's nothing here."
The message used to be visible from low orbit. Ironically, the message itself appears to have been melted away by another determined individual with heavy equipment, and now, truly, there is nothing here.

Mineral Deposits[]
Initial Scanner Result: Rich



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

Medium

5,000


Platinum

High

17,000


Iridium

Medium

6,400


Element Zero

None

0

Trivia[]
Even though the galactic codex states that the disgruntled miner's message is visible from space, it is visible neither in the planet scanner nor the planet overview.
Patsayev is most likely named after Viktor Patsayev, a Soviet cosmonaut who died during space flight.



