


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 







Pelessaria B'Sayle
Rogue Academic

Race
Asari


Gender
Feminine


Voice Actor
Christine Lakin


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda



“The Milky Way was so... been-there-done-that. Even if I hadn't done it, someone had.”
Pelessaria B'Sayle, nicknamed Peebee, is an asari member of Ryder's squad. She is young for an asari, giving her age as "100 and change."
A lone wolf and adventurer at heart, she originally came to Andromeda aboard the Nexus but quickly left and went adventuring on her own before encountering Ryder's team. Intelligent but socially blunt, she decides to join them simply as a means to finding out more about the galaxy's mysteries.[1]
Psychologically, Peebee demonstrates both extremely high intelligence and hyper-individualism. Her restlessness is typical of many asari in their Maiden phase of life, though few go so far as to visit another galaxy.
Peebee is a potential romantic interest for a Ryder of either gender. [2]

Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect: Andromeda

2.1 Loyalty
2.2 Skills
2.3 Armament
2.4 Romance


3 Correspondence
4 Trivia
5 See also
6 References







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Peebee's mother had her late in life. Her father is elcor. She has at least one older half-sister, who is pureblood (according to Peebee, apart from her conception, their mother only mated with other asari). The two are five hundred years apart in age.
As a child, she was raised primarily by her mother and sister. Hailing from Port Lerama, Hyetiana, Peebee grew bored of living in the Milky Way, and joined the Andromeda Initiative with her then-girlfriend Kalinda T'Reve.

Peebee was woken from stasis very shortly after arrival by Kalinda, who was among the first wave unfrozen. Because Peebee's revival was unauthorized, she lived off the grid for a period of time and wormed her way into exploratory missions away from the Nexus. After discovering her first Remnant ruin, she began "borrowing" shuttles, spending so much time off the station that she missed most of the failed uprising.
Kalinda helped Peebee get identifying documents and access to vital resources, and also introduced her - who she fondly called "her little rogue" - to her social circle. Although Peebee enjoyed this, it became clear the relationship was emotionally abusive. Kalinda ended things on her terms and disappeared, at about the same time Peebee began studying Remnant ruins.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Peebee first encounters Pathfinder Ryder at a Remnant monolith on Eos where she jump-tackles them to the ground, resulting in Ryder's squadmates drawing their guns on her. Peebee explains that she has been studying Remnant technology for months and knows that Ryder must allow the glyphs to cycle through their channels so that the structure's system can stabilize. After waiting a moment, the monolith activates, pinging the other Remnant structures. Peebee and Ryder's team then defend themselves from attacking Observers and Assemblers. 
After defeating all hostiles, Peebee reveals what she knows about the Remnant technology. Peebee and Ryder conclude that if they can awaken all the Remnant monoliths, eventually it will lead them to the master switch that can fix Eos' radiated atmosphere. She stays behind the monolith to study how Ryder interfaced with it.
Upon activation of all three monoliths, revealing the location of a vault, Peebee takes to her shuttle and meets the Pathfinder's squad there, wanting to tag along for exploring the vault. After finding a peculiar Remnant artifact, Peebee decides to learn more about it and goes off on her own, while the Pathfinder takes care of the lockdown permeating the vault.
Later, Peebee encounters the Pathfinder's team again, but they're separated by a wide impassable canyon. She shouts back that the artifact she found wasn't a symbol of authority as she originally thought, as the Remnant bots still shoot at her. Before disappearing behind a door, she says she'll try it with one of the data patterns they saw earlier.
One level down, Peebee sees Ryder from higher ground and reports she can't open any doors. The Pathfinder explains the nearby console is broken. Peebee recalls seeing Observers repairing a wall with weird laser frequencies, and sends it over to Ryder's omni-tool to attempt the same with the console. The patch works, and Peebee zooms off on her own again after a bridge appears on her path, daring to race the Pathfinder squad to the heart of the system lockdown.
Ryder reaches the heart of the vault first and fixes the lockdown. Peebee comms in that the whole place is lighting up and power levels are really off the charts. Shortly after, she's warned by the Pathfinder to return to the surface fast: she confirms that the purification field they're all outrunning is killing everything in the way.
Peebee barely makes it to the Pathfinder's team, with both the purification field and a couple of hostile Observers hot on her heels. The field soon recedes, and Peebee deems the entire affair a "rush". If Ryder wonders what just happened, Peebee hypothesizes it's an immune response to scrub the facility before startup. When a nearby console displays its last activity, Peebee notices an apparently active vault among a network of vaults in the Heleus Cluster, and brings it to the Pathfinder's attention before they all return to the surface.
Back topside, Peebee observes the results of nearly instantaneous terraforming and notes no atmosphere processor works that fast. Realizing they have a lead in the aforementioned active vault, and because the Pathfinder has a means to interface properly with the Remnant (their SAM), Peebee decides to join the team. Giddy when Ryder accepts, she returns to her shuttle promising to catch up: she only needs a footlocker with a datapad, a toothbrush, and clean underwear.
Aboard the Tempest, Peebee turns the escape pod next to the bridge into her personal quarters, claiming it's more her "speed", though she can often be found elsewhere on the ship interacting with the crew.

Following the reveal of kett origins during the Moshae Sjefa's rescue, Peebee admits she never thought they were fighting exalted angara. Whichever Ryder's response, she becomes invested in stopping the Archon. She begins to realize the scale of what they're learning, and is humbled by the notion.
Peebee has a cold, verging on adversarial, relationship with Dr. Lexi T'Perro. On comms, Peebee pesters Vetra Nyx to ask Lexi for Jaal's scans even if the two asari are in the same room, giving the reason simply as "because." The doctor predictably denies the request, and Peebee grumbles "useless" in frustration. At one time she refuses to talk to her thinking Lexi is trying to figure her out so she can categorize her flaws and put labels on her. She has no interest on being Lexi's guinea pig, assuming that the doctor views everything on the ship as an experiment.
After Ryder's visit to the Aya vault, Peebee's glad they were right about pursuing the lead, and her decision to join the Pathfinder paid off after learning about Meridian. As every Remnant system they've seen so far is connected to each other, she reasons that activating Meridian will connect the entire network and rekindle terraforming clusterwide.
Following the retrieval of Vehn Terev's transponder from Kadara, Peebee participates in the team meeting Drack called and shares that she overheard about activity on Remav from Kadara's Outlaws. Hearing about tensions on Elaaden, Peebee puts in a snide remark about krogan aggression. 
If Ryder talks to her afterward, Peebee finds Kadara Port grisly and asks if going after the Archon's ship is a good idea. The Pathfinder can convince her it is, or give a sobering assessment.
Peebee later asks Ryder to acquire a Remnant device on Voeld. She later reveals her intent for the device back at her apartment on the Nexus, having reprogrammed a Remnant Observer she nicknamed Poc, short for Proof-of-concept. Peebee's success with Poc has given her the knowledge to build Remnant VI for Ryder. Unfortunately, her former friend Kalinda T'Reve barged in and after condescending to Peebee, became very interested in Poc. After Ryder escorts Kalinda out for trespassing, Peebee explains she and Kalinda have an unhappy history and is the reason she doesn't put too much weight on long-term relationships.
After Peebee completely moves into the Tempest, Ryder can accept Peebee's invitation to meet her at the angarans' Repository of History on Aya. When Ryder meets her there, she seems drunk and expresses frustration at how the angara have already done extensive research on the Remnant and she doesn't like following in someone else's footsteps. Furthermore, she tells Ryder that she's been feeling off ever since she moved out of the Nexus. During the conversation, Ryder can reassure her about her issues.
Following the trip to the angaran museum, Peebee will become restless because she doesn't like staying in one place for too long. Peebee then confides in Ryder that she would use isolation tanks or zero-G chambers to calm herself down during such times. SAM suggests to Peebee that the Tempest's escape pods can be modified to become zero-G chambers. Peebee likes SAM's idea and invites Ryder to relax with her in the escape pod.
Later on, Peebee reveals she's been working on a new project. She has been trying to expand their scanners' capabilities to detect all Remnant signatures, allowing them to locate every form of Remnant technology. However, she needs three pieces of Remnant technology to perfect the scanner and Peebee enlists Ryder's aid in retrieving them. As Peebee and Ryder scours the Heleus Cluster for these Remnant pieces, they notice that Outlaw mercenaries, who were later revealed to be working for Kalinda, are competing to retrieve these specific Remnant pieces as well. Eventually, Kallo Jath notifies Ryder that Kalinda has stolen Poc and has left the Remnant technology her men took as payment. Peebee is annoyed and tells Ryder that she needs Poc's data to complete her Remnant scanner.
Peebee eventually finds a lead when she meets with Samrick, a male human who used to run with Kalinda's crew. He knows all their safehouses, rallying points etc., but his tongue had to be loosened with a soft threat and some drinks. Samrick reveals Poc is being held at an abandoned site in the Paradise Sands region. When Ryder's squad gets there, a Scavenger there says that Kalinda and her crew had already departed, but left behind a broken Poc. Peebee buys Poc back from the scavenger with her own money and brought it back to the Tempest, where Peebee was able to repair Poc and upgrade her Remnant scanner. The next time Ryder interacts with Peebee however, she seems unenthusiastic. She'll reveal that Kalinda left an audio log on Poc, taunting her about breaking her Observer. Peebee confides in Ryder that in truth, Kalinda's influence over her still bothers her.
After completing Peebee's loyalty mission, Peebee will give a speech to Ryder and all their squadmates in the meeting room. There she declares that she'll no longer have one foot out the door and will from here on out, be committed to the Tempest's crew. She states she's proud and happy to be a part of the team, whom she considers family. After hearing words of encouragement from the other squadmates, she asks if they'd like to aid her in cleaning her room, to which all the squadmates make up excuses to get out of it.

Loyalty[]
Peebee lures Ryder and another squadmate into one of the Tempest's escape pods and launches it without asking towards a volcanic world teeming with Remnant in order to investigate a mysterious Remnant signal. Unfortunately, Kalinda was on the same trail and had brought a group of mercenaries to beat Peebee to the Remnant device. At some point during the mission, Kalinda's life was in peril and Peebee abandons the Remnant device in an attempt to save her life. Ryder can choose to shoot Kalinda so Peebee will focus on recovering the device or let Peebee sacrifice the device in order to rescue Kalinda. When the team returns to the Tempest, Peebee and Ryder discuss Kalinda and how to compensate for the Tempest's missing escape pod.

Skills[]


Powers

Invasion


Pull


Shockwave


Passives

Duelist


Survivalist




Note: †Rank 6 of each Skill is unavailable to Peebee until her loyalty mission Peebee: A Mysterious Remnant Signal is completed.

Armament[]
Peebee is armed with a Sidewinder pistol.

Romance[]
A male or female Ryder can romance Peebee. The option to begin flirting will first appear after building an outpost on Eos; she responds favorably and will encourage it.
After giving Peebee the Remnant device from Voeld, she will send an email asking Ryder to meet her at the museum on Aya. Doing so will prompt a brief conversation, where it quickly becomes apparent she is inebriated.
Upon returning to the Tempest, the next time Ryder goes to talk to Peebee, she will be visibly unsettled and start pacing anxiously, claiming she can't get used to ship life. With a little help from SAM, she'll hit on a way to de-stress by using the escape pod as a zero-G chamber, and invite the Pathfinder in. Regardless of whether or not Ryder has flirted with her previously, Peebee will suggest "something else" that would relax her. At this point it is possible to turn her down, agree to casual sex (possible even if Ryder is pursuing someone else), or request "strings attached." Either of the latter two options can be used to pursue a romance later on. Ryder can continue to engage in "zero g flings" with Peebee until such a time as they lock into a romance with another character, at which point the flirting option that leads to the casual encounters will no longer be available.
If Ryder continues to pursue her, then after Peebee's loyalty mission, she will admit to Ryder that she wants to be "more than friends, more than lovers" with them, to which Ryder can reply in kind or reject. If accepted, Peebee will open up a bit more about what Kalinda did to her after they arrived in Heleus and will eventually leave a "surprise" in Ryder's quarters after their return from The Journey to Meridian. Peebee will come into Ryder's quarters and after a bit of small talk will suggest they reenact how they met. During the "reenactment" Peebee will admit that she's never melded with anyone, having never trusted herself to do it. She quietly gasps Ryder's name (surname or the default Scott/Sara) and melds with Ryder. In a silent void, Peebee tells Ryder they're one and Ryder can respond that this is a gift or can join Peebee in professing their love for the other. After, the two lie down together and Peebee says, "This is where I belong."
During Meridian: The Way Home, a romanced Peebee will ask Ryder to meet her on the Tempest bridge. The two share a tender moment before the mission continues.
After the completion of the final mission, Peebee congratulates Ryder and notes that they're being recorded for the whole cluster to see. If Ryder picks the emotional dialogue option, Peebee will kiss them, commenting that now everyone knows the human Pathfinder is taken. She receives a romance-specific dialogue option when talking to her on Meridian.

Correspondence[]
After returning to the Tempest once the Remnant vault on Eos has been activated:




Data Cores
To: Ryder
From: Peebee

Hey, Ryder!

Hope it's okay that I'm keeping this data core in my room (i.e., the escape pod).  I guess I just really like to ponder things before bed.  The best ideas come to me while I'm half asleep.

Also, I saw it first.

Anyway, we know for sure it's got some sort of data in it.  The trick is how to get at it.

I'll keep you updated.


Peebee



After returning to the Tempest once Ryder has revisited the Nexus after establishing Prodromos:




Ugh!
To: Ryder
From: Peebee (the peeved)

Your doctor is one of the nosiest asari I've ever met. And that's saying A LOT. She needs to take it down four or five notches, or I won't be long for this show.

Which would be too bad.

I think.

Oh, never mind!


--Peebee



After activation of the Voeld vault or obtaining a certain number of Remnant data cores:




Remnant Brain!
To: Ryder
From: Peebee

Ryder!

Okay, so... just for fun, I decided I'd blast the Remnant data core with energy to see what that would do. First used the battery off the Nomad (don't tell Gil)... nothing. Then a mass effect field (biotics--Cora helped). Still nothing. And then I took it to Jaal and made him do his bio-electricity thing.

Jackpot.

The entire thing lit up. I caught it all on my omni-tool. Ever see synapses firing? It was like that. I mean... this data core is almost like aa tiny Remnant brain.

So that's cool.

Not sure how exactly I'm going to apply this to getting at the data, though.


Peebs



If Ryder joins Peebee in zero-g in her escape pod:




So much better!
To: Ryder
From: Peebee (the chill)

Typically, I'm not the type to send mail. At least, not mail that just reflects or lingers on stuff. But I'm okay letting you know how great our float was for me. And the weird thing is, I think it was actually better with you there. Added a little bumper car whimsy.

Hmm. You might be growing on me a little. Not sure if that's good or bad. But I'm not going to ponder that right now. Wanna stay chill.


--Peebee



After talking with Peebee after POC's activation:




POC!!!
To: Ryder
From: Peebee (the creator)

Have to say, feeling pretty good about myself. Poc is the first thing I've made that I doubt I'll get tired of. And that's saying a TON, believe me!

Someday, when we've got this rem-tech all figured out, Poc's gonna blow people's minds.

Not sure why I decided to write this to you. Strange impulse, that. Hmm. I'll have to noodle on it a bit.


--Peebee


Trivia[]
Peebee is listed as 167 cm tall and 52 kg.
See also[]
Unique dialogue
References[]
Peebee - Mass Effect: Andromeda

↑ Game Informer: Meet Your Mass Effect Andromeda Squadmates: Liam And Peebee

↑ https://twitter.com/GambleMike/status/827330966138003457






Mass Effect: Andromeda Squad




Cora Harper • Nakmor Drack • Jaal Ama DaravLiam Kosta • Pelessaria B'Sayle • Vetra Nyx




