


Poc has been stolen and must be recovered.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Wait for Peebee to contact you about Poc
2.2 Check your email from Peebee
2.3 Meet Peebee in the Kadara Bar
2.4 Go to the location on Elaaden
2.5 Search the site
2.6 Talk to the scavenger
2.7 Speak to Peebee on the Tempest
2.8 ON HOLD: Wait For Peebee's Scanner To Find Something


3 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Peebee: Remnant Scanner

This mission arrives at the tail end of the previous one.

Walkthrough[]
Wait for Peebee to contact you about Poc[]
Note:  This section may still be marked ON HOLD even after fulfilling the requisite triggers.

Check your email from Peebee[]
The next time you board the Tempest there is an email from Peebee titled "Got a Lead". Acknowledge the email to get the next objective.




Got a Lead 
To: Ryder
From: Peebee 

Hey, I've discovered someone who can help us find Poc. He might need a little convincing. When we go to Kadara Port, meet me in the bar, please?

Let's go get my bot back!


Peebee


Meet Peebee in the Kadara Bar[]
Go to Kralla's Song and talk to Peebee. She introduces a man named Samrick who used to run with Kalinda T'Reve's crew. He knows their safehouses, rallying points etc. His tongue had to be loosened with a soft threat and some drinks.

Go to the location on Elaaden[]
The navpoint  is located at a scavenger base  in the far southwest of the map in the Paradise Sands region. On closer inspection the base appears deserted.

Search the site[]
On entering the structure you will see Poc lying disabled on a table and a scavenger. 

Talk to the scavenger[]
Talk to the scavenger. He knows that Kalinda and her crew were here, but they departed, leaving Poc behind. Peebee buys Poc back from him with her own money (Ryder doesn't lose credits.) Peebee will now be able to upgrade her Remnant scanner and she'll talk to Ryder about it back on the ship.
You receive +29 AVP  and +2% Elaaden viability.
There is a container in the room that can be looted.

Speak to Peebee on the Tempest[]
Return to the Tempest and speak to Peebee. Peebee has received a taunting message from Kalinda, who deliberately broke Poc, and makes a veiled threat to do the same to Ryder. Peebee has some emotional issues with the situation, but in practical terms believes that everything is OK. Poc is working again, and the Remnant scanner is upgraded. Now you will just have to wait until the scanner pics something up. 
You receive +1330 XP.

ON HOLD: Wait For Peebee's Scanner To Find Something[]
After landing on any planet or docking at the Nexus then returning to the Tempest, the scanner picks up something. This mission is completed, this section disappears from the journal, and Peebee: A Mysterious Remnant Signal begins automatically.

Rewards[]
None



