


Collect the rem-tech Peebee needs.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Check your email from Peebee
2.2 Recover the rem-tech from the Remnant site on Voeld
2.3 Speak with Peebee in the Tempest escape pod
2.4 Meet with Peebee in her Nexus apartment
2.5 ON HOLD: Wait for Peebee to learn more about the Remnant


3 Rewards
4 Puzzle Solution


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: A Trail of Hope I

This mission is technically acquired once Pathfinder Ryder lands on Aya during the mission above, though you will need to read Peebee's email to see the details.

Walkthrough[]
Check your email from Peebee[]



Rem-Tech
To: Ryder
From: Peebee

Thanks to that Remnant storage box from the Eos vault, all I need is one particular piece of rem-tech to complete my project. My scanner located what I need on Voeld.

If we have a chance, can we go find it?


Peebee


After reading the email from Peebee a new objective is started.

Recover the rem-tech from the Remnant site on Voeld[]
Head to Techiix on Voeld. Head northeast of Techiix to reach the Remnant ruins  with the navpoint .
At the site, Remnant forces will attack. Defeat them.
There is a single glyph that needs to be scanned so that the puzzle can be solved. The Verdurous Glyph is located on the ground and can be easily scanned.
On the platform is also an Adapted Remnant Core Device that can be scanned for +100 .
Interface with the Remnant Relic and a puzzle has to be solved. Using the scanned glyph from nearby, solve the puzzle to collect the rem-tech.  For the puzzle console solution, see here.
You will receive +29 AVP  and +2% Voeld viability.

Speak with Peebee in the Tempest escape pod[]
Head to the Tempest to speak with Peebee. She's talkative but refuses to say anything about her secret project. She invites you next to her apartment on the Nexus.

Meet with Peebee in her Nexus apartment[]
Head to the Common Area on the Nexus to Peebee's apartment. Peebee presents a friendly Remnant Observer that will fight for Ryder. Suddenly, an asari named Kalinda T'Reve enters the apartment, evidently someone from Peebee's past. You'll eventually escort her out, and Peebee says that she is packing up and leaving the apartment for the Tempest.
When the cutscene is over, the "Unknown" Tech Skill on the Skills screen will now be unlocked and change to Remnant VI. Remnant VI is a controllable Remnant Observer named "Zap".
Ryder also receives +530 XP.
The mission will now go on hold.

ON HOLD: Wait for Peebee to learn more about the Remnant[]
Collect more of the rem-tech she needs.
The mission completes after also completing the objective "Speak To Gil In Tempest Engineering" for the Hunting the Archon mission. The follow-up mission Peebee: Remnant Scanner starts automatically.

Rewards[]
None
Puzzle Solution[]
Main article: Remnant Decryption Puzzle Guide





Remnant RelicReward: Valuable Loot





