


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
On occasion when Peebee is in the squad, she will engage in conversations unique to her.

Unique Dialogue[]
Throughout Ryder's travels, there are specific points where Peebee will voice her opinions. 

On A Better Beginning:
Peebee wants a scientific outpost if her opinion is asked, reasoning that the Remnant can't be solved with guns.
Spontaneous[]
Sometimes Peebee will say something spontaneously, without being prompted.

On Eos:
Peebee really doesn't like coming back to Site 1: Promise.
While wandering around Prodromos, Peebee mentions peeking at the plans for the research labs and liked what she found if it's a scientific outpost. If it's a military outpost, she hopes the rookie soldiers don't poke the Remnant.
When the final survey beacon has been planted on Task: What He Would Have Wanted, Peebee, her voice breaking, suggests shooting some things after realizing the significance of the beacons.
On Havarl:
Shortly after landing for the first time, Peebee marvels at the sight of so many plants that she thinks the local Remnant vault must be operational.
On seeing giant glow-in-the-dark fungi, Peebee finds them pretty, noting she never described mushrooms as such before.
Peebee wonders about the Chasm of the Builders' purpose, initially theorizing it's an aqueduct.
While roaming around the Central Wilds after hearing about Havarl's decline from Kiiran Dals, Peebee supposes the monoliths' partial functioning is akin to running a string of computer code with a chunk missing. Ryder asks why the system isn't completely broken compared to other worlds, and Peebee thinks the vault instructions for each world might be different.
While wandering around the Remnant Abyss after hearing about angaran reincarnation from First Sage Esmus, a squadmate comments about it. Peebee theorizes it's some kind of genetic memory, comparing it to asari memory transfer.
On Voeld:
While wandering around the Angaran Resistance Base, Peebee observes everyone looks "friendly".
Peebee wonders how the command center works, speculating if the angara adapted Remnant tech.
On Kadara:
Peebee deems Kadara Slums depressing.
On entering Tartarus Peebee approves of the ambient music, dancing, and booze.
On Elaaden:
After the conclusion of Aspirations, if Barrett moved into his new base and was told about the munitions stockpile there, he talks about taking over other groups. Peebee remarks with uncertainty that at least he'll be taking out the bad guys.
Nomad Banter[]
While driving across a landscape in the Nomad, Peebee may initiate or reply to conversations around certain topics.

Inside caves Peebee admits disliking them as she gets too many kaerkyns in her sleeping bag.
While talking with Cora:
Peebee seeks reassurances from Cora that their settlement efforts in Heleus will succeed, reasoning it would be pretty stupid to go all the way to Andromeda just to fail.
While talking with Vetra:
Peebee recalls meeting with Vetra's sister on the Nexus, finding the turian's bubbly personality annoying and claiming to have met nobody like that before. Hearing Vetra raised her sister, Peebee thinks Vetra wanted to try motherhood, hastily backpedaling when the turian grows offended.
Peebee tries to apologize by telling Vetra about her own sister. This sister was 500 years older than Peebee, that by the time she was self-aware her sister was already a matriarch. Peebee was essentially raised by two mothers who tried to raise her "right", which leads her to think she understands Vetra's position. Vetra doesn't appreciate the effort, forcing Peebee to drop the matter.
While talking with Liam:
Peebee has noticed that Liam often takes positions close to Ryder in a deliberate attempt at protection, and asks if he also does it with other people.
Peebee directly asks if he has a problem with her. She flippantly snarks at his responses and surmises he doesn't trust her.
She deems flirting with Liam a waste of time, and they both agree when she asks him.
Peebee calls out Liam's black and white morality. She cites the instances she fought and bled with the team as proof enough of her allegiance, but she doesn't see the difference between doing those for the team or because of what she wanted from the team.
Peebee and Liam settle on friendly, formal terms. She surmises he still doesn't like her much, though she agrees that it's a snooze fest if everyone got along with each other easily.
Peebee wonders if Liam's smugness came from his cop background. Hearing that it's from crisis response and the claim that users are the most dangerous things after a disaster, Peebee comments she would've guessed bears first.
Peebee deems it funny in a slapstick way if she and Liam actually ended up together.
Liam calls her a "dead-eye shot", referring to her marksmanship in combat. Peebee misunderstands and thinks he's talking about actual dead eyes.
Peebee reasons she can't study Remnant if they're shooting at her when Liam asks if she's holding back against them.
When Liam questions her sharpness she compares herself to a tack and dares him to sit on her to verify.
Peebee questions his hardass behavior, and when he reasons there's too much riding on them she snips back there's too much riding on her at the moment.
He recalls tangling with a scarred turian and some mercenaries. Peebee thinks he's referencing vids again and dares him to make his own story.
Peebee mockingly flirts with him. She muses her plan worked when he requests reassignment.
She warns Liam they agree on something when he mentions being glad to be out of the Nexus.
Peebee prefers fighting Remnant over kett because the bots have processes driving their decisions, not emotions. She deems the kett worse in that regard.
Peebee's in need of actuators. She wants Liam to watch for Observers so they can shoot and loot the robots as always.
She complains about soccer and extols the virtues of Kailat ring-ball. She thinks having feet is a requirement for playing soccer.
Peebee declares she wasn't close to anyone from the Nexus, exiled or not.
When Liam shares reservations with poking around Remnant tech, Peebee insists they "make things better". Pressed for details, she only repeats her point.
She thinks Liam considering himself an average human as sad.
Peebee notes they are being provisioned better than the first forays into the cluster. The people in charge didn't expect the earlier efforts to fail, but they hoped that they wouldn't.
She wonders why Liam's such a stickler for the rules considering Heleus is new to all of them. She deems his play-safe answer boring.
When Liam complains about every planet fighting them every step, Peebee supposes one could get used to anything. He doesn't want to end up looking traumatized, and Peebee thinks everyone starts like that.
Following the completion of A Trail of Hope II, when Liam talks about angaran first contact Peebee deems the natives boring compared to the Remnant: similar tech base and humanoid body shape versus robots that control entire planets.
Following the completion of Liam Kosta: All In, Peebee sarcastically praises Liam's bungled attempt at helping Verand, reminding him how he was "thinking of the team" when he did it.
Following the completion of Meridian: The Way Home, Peebee reasons she's still in the field so she can see the terraforming effects up close.
While talking with Drack:
Peebee dwells on the asari and krogan's thousand-year lifespans and how Drack is approaching the end of his, estimating he has as much time left as the humans and turians on the team.
When Drack inquires why she's using a Sidewinder, Peebee replies she prefers being light on her feet. She also does not underestimate Drack's fighting ability when he points out she has biotics.
On Eos:
Peebee claims she likes Eos though it could be because of Stockholm Syndrome. Ryder tells her it's a hard world but one can get used to anything given enough effort.
Ryder tells the third squadmate Eos will have holidays once they understand its seasons. Peebee, having seen a lot of wastelands, wonders where's the celebration for managing to live on the world.
Around Presson Dunes Peebee fancies tossing a rock into one of the ubiquitous "kett turbine things."
Around the rock formations near the Four Giants Peebee's unimpressed with the scenery and is impatient to find some tech.
On Elaaden:
While talking with Cora:
Cora parrots the asari mindset of learning from alien cultures to grow. Peebee finds the notion tiresome, preferring to think the Initiative is for discovering new things and not for rehashing and stagnation. The human tries to defend her point, though Peebee dismissively calls her Matriarch and wants to return to something else more interesting.
While talking with Drack:
Peebee notes the sky has a weird color, although she supposes her eyes are the aliens there and the sky is just what it is.
Drack praises her for not pulling her shots even when fighting Remnant. Peebee reasons she can't study them if they kill her.
Peebee teases Drack's annoyance at the krogan not getting their own ark even though she doesn't care much for the Leusinia.
On Voeld:
While talking with Vetra:
Peebee recalls stowing away on a batarian freighter and ending up skinny-dipping on a glass-bottom pool. Vetra doesn't appreciate the story, causing Peebee to remark it's just a night of stupid pointless crap.
On Kadara:
Out in the badlands she expected pirates more of the "yar" variety rather than the shooty Outlaw pirates.
On seeing a wind farm in Varren's Scalp, she muses the exiles must be more resourceful than previously thought.



