




Phoenix

Milky Way / Argos Rho







System View


Stellar Mass
1.7 Sol Masses


Stellar Class
F0


Luminosity
6 Sol


Planets
5


Moons
0


Asteroid Belts
2


Asteroids
1


Objects
1



Prerequisite: Priority: Geth Dreadnought (Mass Effect 3)

Phoenix is home to two asteroid belts and at least four planets. Activity in the system has been known as far back as the Krogan Rebellions, though it still remains a frontier system as of the present age due to inhospitable worlds.

Contents

1 Carbonaceous Asteroid
2 Intai'sei

2.1 Mass Effect
2.2 Mass Effect 3


3 Patashi
4 Pinnacle Station
5 Sylsalto
6 Tuntau
7 Vebinok
8 Trivia


Carbonaceous Asteroid[]
This asteroid is emitting a weak, intermittent signal at a frequency of 1540 MHz. Radius: 71 km.

Collection: UNC: Prothean Data Discs: Prothean Data Discs ×1

“During a scan of the Phoenix system asteroid field, you detected an odd energy reading that Tali determined was quarian in nature. She led a recon team into the asteroid field, where she discovered an abandoned freighter. The team could not determine why the ship was there, but they did find a Prothean data disc on board.”


Intai'sei[]
Intai'sei is the third planet orbiting the star Phoenix.

Main article: Intai'sei
Mass Effect[]
Assignment: Pinnacle Station: Convoy
Mass Effect 3[]
Mission: Citadel: Kakliosaur Fossil
Patashi[]
Patashi is the first planet orbiting the star Phoenix.

Main article: Patashi
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals:   Rare Element ×1
Pinnacle Station[]
Main article: Pinnacle Station (location)
Assignment: Pinnacle Station: Combat Missions
Assignment: Pinnacle Station: Vidinos
Sylsalto[]
Sylsalto is the second planet orbiting the star Phoenix.

Main article: Sylsalto
Tuntau[]
Tuntau is the fourth planet orbiting the star Phoenix.

Main article: Tuntau
Assignment: Wrex: Family Armor
Collection: UNC: Asari Writings: Matriarch's Writings ×1
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals: Heavy Metal ×1 / Light Metal ×1
Vebinok[]
Vebinok is the fifth planet orbiting the star Phoenix.

Main article: Vebinok
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals:  Light Metal ×1
Trivia[]
This system may be named for the phoenix, a mythical bird from Arabia that burns itself in a fire and is reincarnated from the ashes every 500 years.
The stellar mass is derived from Tuntau's Keplerian ratio, based on its orbital distance of "nearly 20 AU". That implies the 19-20 AU range and a mass of 1.7-1.8. A value of 1.7 was chosen because it better aligns with the "main sequence" chart.
In Mass Effect, Intai'sei was visually added as the fifth and outermost planet of Phoenix but its ingame numbers actually placed it third, between Sysalto and Tuntau. The error is addressed in Mass Effect 3 and the updated system map now places the third to fifth planets in the correct order.
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition, because the Pinnacle Station DLC was cut Intai'sei and the Pinnacle Station asteroid are again removed from the system in the remastered version of the first game.



