


For the DLC pack for Mass Effect, see Pinnacle Station.


Pinnacle Station

Region
Milky Way / Argos Rho / Phoenix





Asteroid View


Radius
0.34 km


Location: Milky Way / Argos Rho / Phoenix System / Asteroid belt

Prerequisite: Pinnacle Station: Combat Missions (Mass Effect)

Prerequisite: Priority: Geth Dreadnought (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Layout
3 Additional Information
4 Notable Inhabitants
5 Assignments
6 Search and Rescue
7 Trivia


Description[]
The asteroid-based Pinnacle Station was originally constructed as a concealed command center during the Krogan Rebellions. It has been retrofitted as a military training facility for all high-level special operations teams employed by the Council. The station's combat simulator allows teams to train under a variety of hazardous conditions.

Population: 1,200
Layout[]
The station has three notable sections. After the airlock, visitors enter the command centre, where the station's operators and commanding officer can be found. The command centre shows evidence of the station's turian heritage as, like the construction of the SSV Normandy's CIC, the CO is placed behind and above his subordinates to look over them. The command centre also offers a spectacular view of Vebinok and the local asteroid field.
The second section, the observation deck, is where competitors rest between scenarios, check their scores, and watch other competitors going through the simulator. Ochren, the simulator's designer, is on hand here to set up new scenarios and monitor the simulation.
The third section is the simulator itself. Using a combination of sophisticated combat VIs, holographic images and kinetic barriers, the simulator can produce small-scale combat scenarios to test the competitors, using kinetic slugs to simulate damage (though they hurt as much as real rounds, and actually cause damage if they penetrate shields). The simulator offers a choice of volcanic, subterranean, tropical or warehouse settings, all of which have different objectives to achieve. Most enemies in the simulator are either simulated geth, pirates, or mercenaries.

Additional Information[]
During the Reaper War, Pinnacle Station has been repurposed as a command and control center for Council forces.

Notable Inhabitants[]

Admiral Tadius Ahern - station commander
Tech Specialist Ochren
Sergeant Dahga
Guard Captain Vidinos
Khel Burrum (krogan competitor)
Lieutenant Bryant (human competitor)
Assignments[]
Assignment: Pinnacle Station: Combat Missions
Assignment: Pinnacle Station: Vidinos
Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Turian Spec Ops Team
Trivia[]
Pinnacle Station is a mission location in the N7 HQ Galaxy at War mini-game for Mass Effect 3.
As the Pinnacle Station DLC was cut from Mass Effect Legendary Edition, the asteroid does not exist anymore in the remastered version of the first game.



