


For the similar Collector enemy encountered in Mass Effect 2, see Harbinger (Collector).







Possessed Trooper




Faction
Collectors


Type
Organic


Armament
Collector SMG


Abilities
 Collector Web


Health
Moderate


Barrier
Moderate


Locations
Armax Arsenal Arena


The Possessed Trooper is a Collector unit encountered in Mass Effect 3. It is an enhanced variant of the Collector Trooper.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
The Possessed Trooper is armed with a Collector SMG, the same as a Collector Trooper. It can create a Collector Web to snare enemies but lacks the grenades of its regular counterpart.
Defensive
It has moderate health (50% more than its normal counterpart) and gains a layer of barriers. It will often take cover during combat and can avoid attacks by rolling. Like other Mass Effect 3 enemies, it can be staggered by gunfire or powers if unprotected by barriers, and headshots will inflict 40% additional damage to it.

Tactics[]
For the most part, dealing with this enemy is no different from a regular Collector Trooper. The only difference comes in using webs rather than grenades, which actually makes them somewhat less of a threat, as they're unable to flush you from cover in that way.
The Collectors always strike and deal damage with their melee blades twice; a batarian's Blade Armor will cause the Trooper to stagger back after dealing their first blow, thus preventing them from dealing the full damage of both strikes. This allows a batarian a good close quarters advantage against the Collectors over other races.
Collector SMGs' weapon tracers are light gray, making them very hard to see. It's very possible to be taking fire from one without noticing, which can turn a casual hop from cover to cover into a very bad idea.
Possessed Trooper remains immobile while creating the web, unable to dodge or retaliate. The web itself can be safely ignored unless it's directly in your way.


Mass Effect 3 Enemies


CAT6

Brooks • CAT6 Heavy • CAT6 Sniper • CAT6 Specialist • Clone • Disruption Drone


Cerberus

Adjutant • Assault Trooper • Atlas • Centurion • Combat Engineer • Dragoon • Dr. Eva • Guardian • Kai Leng • Legion Assassin • Nemesis • Phantom • Rampart Mech • Turret


Collectors

Abomination (Possessed) • Collector Captain (Possessed) • Collector Trooper (Possessed) • Collector Web • Praetorian (Possessed) • Scion (Possessed) • Seeker Swarm (Plague)


Geth

Combat Drone • Geth Bomber • Geth Hunter • Geth Prime • Geth Pyro • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Trooper • Geth Turret


Reapers

Banshee • Brute • Cannibal • Harvester • Husk • Marauder • Ravager • Swarmer




