


For the similar Collector enemy encountered in Mass Effect 2, see Harbinger (Collector).







Possessed Captain




Faction
Collectors


Type
Organic


Armament
Collector Assault Rifle


Abilities
 Seeker Plague Barrier


Health
High


Barrier
Moderate


Locations
Armax Arsenal Arena


The Possessed Captain is a Collector unit encountered in Mass Effect 3. It is an enhanced variant of the Collector Captain.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Possessed Captains are armed with Collector Assault Rifles, and can release Seeker Plagues. They can use organic blades for melee attacks as well as instantly kill downed players with a stomp.
Defensive
Like their normal counterparts, Possessed Captains have biotic barriers, albeit twice as strong as their normal ones. They also have twice as much health as their normal counterparts, making it the largest health bar of any enemy. They will often take cover during combat. Like other Mass Effect 3 enemies, they can be staggered by gunfire or powers when unprotected by barriers, and headshots will inflict 40% additional damage on them.

Tactics[]
Captains are comparable to other "commander" infantry types such as Marauders and Centurions, but they are tougher and more aggressive than either. They have a tendency to advance straight at your position while firing long bursts from their rifles that can overwhelm you quickly.
Seeker Plagues can deal heavy damage and block you from using your powers, so it is advised that you concentrate your fire on Possessed Captains as a producer of such enemies.
Possessed Captains are dangerous in melee range. Their melee attack staggers players, allowing them or nearby units to follow up with gunfire.
They always strike and deal damage with their melee blades twice; a batarian's Blade Armor will cause the Captain to stagger back after dealing their first blow, thus preventing them from dealing the full damage of both strikes. This allows a batarian a good close quarters advantage against the Collectors over other races.
Their melee attack is a long animation, so baiting a Captain into it and then backing off quickly can be a useful tactic.
Captains are most vulnerable while in the middle of creating Seeker Plagues — for several seconds, they will double over, helpless, while the Plague emerges. This is the ideal time to attack them, since they are incapable of dodging or retaliating until the Plague is formed. However, the Plague can block shots or powers once created, so weapons and powers that can penetrate objects or deal area damage are effective.
Possessed Captains only have barriers as any means of defence, so any biotic character should be able to eliminate them quickly. Overload is also useful against them.


Mass Effect 3 Enemies


CAT6

Brooks • CAT6 Heavy • CAT6 Sniper • CAT6 Specialist • Clone • Disruption Drone


Cerberus

Adjutant • Assault Trooper • Atlas • Centurion • Combat Engineer • Dragoon • Dr. Eva • Guardian • Kai Leng • Legion Assassin • Nemesis • Phantom • Rampart Mech • Turret


Collectors

Abomination (Possessed) • Collector Captain (Possessed) • Collector Trooper (Possessed) • Collector Web • Praetorian (Possessed) • Scion (Possessed) • Seeker Swarm (Plague)


Geth

Combat Drone • Geth Bomber • Geth Hunter • Geth Prime • Geth Pyro • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Trooper • Geth Turret


Reapers

Banshee • Brute • Cannibal • Harvester • Husk • Marauder • Ravager • Swarmer




