




Pragia

Region
Milky Way / Nubian Expanse / Dakka





Planet View


Orbital Distance
1.3 AU


Orbital Period
1.5 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.976


Radius
5,137 km


Day Length
29.6 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.84 atm


Surface Temp
54 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.87 g


Mass
0.56 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Nubian Expanse / Dakka System /  Second planet

Prerequisite: Jack: Subject Zero (Mass Effect 2)

Prerequisite: Priority: Thessia (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Missions
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Lifeforms
6 Search and Rescue


Description[]
The jungle-planet Pragia is overrun by choking hypergrowth caused by industrially-mutated plant species. This, combined with its relative isolation and lack of population, has made Pragia an occasional base of operations for drug-runners, weapons-smugglers, pirates, mercenaries, terrorists, and intelligence agents seeking secrecy.
Sustained habitation on Pragia is extremely difficult, where mutant and even poisonous plant-life can overgrow colonies in days instead of years.

Codex Entry[]





Audio: Pragiahttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Pragia_Codex.ogg

Choked by the hyper-growth of non-native plant species, Pragia serves as a galactic reminder about the imperative for careful regulation during colonization.
Two centuries ago, batarian agribusiness chose uninhabited Pragia as their empire’s breadbasket. Colonization authorities introduced non-native, industrially-mutated plants that flourished in the world’s fertile volcanic soil. Synergizing with Pragia’s natural geothermal conditions and chemotropic microbes, the imported species soon became a nightmare. Mutant strains of poisonous and even carnivorous plants arose, overgrowing colonies in days instead of years, and causing the batarians to abandon their holdings. Because the planet’s small animal population is insufficient to check its plant growth, Alliance ecologists predict soil exhaustion in 400 years.
Due to its relative isolation and lack of population, Pragia has become a regional haven for drug-runners, weapons-smugglers, pirates, mercenaries, terrorists, and intelligence agents seeking secrecy.


Missions[]
Mission: Jack: Subject Zero
Mineral Deposits[]
Pragia is a mission world and cannot be mined.

Lifeforms[]
Aresh
Blood Pack
Blood Pack Pyro
Blood Pack Trooper
Blood Pack Warrior
Kureck
Varren
Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Intel: Research Data from Pragia



