


A rival smuggler named Zia Cordier has stolen cargo from Reyes Vidal. Hoping to retrieve the cargo before his client discovers it's missing, Reyes asks you to help him locate Zia.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Meet Reyes at Kralla's Song
2.2 Go to the meeting spot at Spirits' Ledge
2.3 Search for all signs of Zia's meeting
2.4 Examine dead drop
2.5 Meet Reyes at the navpoint
2.6 Defeat smugglers


3 Aftermath
4 Enemies
5 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: A People Divided

Visit Reyes in his room at Tartarus in Kadara Slums (marked with a) after the previous mission.

Walkthrough[]
This mission offers numerous opportunities to initiate or strengthen a romance with Reyes through dialogue, starting with the mission's very acquisition.

Meet Reyes at Kralla's Song[]
Meet with Reyes at Kralla's Song in Kadara Port. It turns out that Zia is Reyes' ex. Umi Henon, the bartender, says she overheard a conversation where Zia will meet someone at Spirits' Ledge. Reyes will follow up a Collective lead, while your next move is to investigate Spirits' Ledge.
Throughout this meeting, two romance dialogue choices indicating a more than professional interest in Reyes' personal life can be taken.

Go to the meeting spot at Spirits' Ledge[]
Head to the navpoint which is southeast of Kadara Port in the Spirits' Ledge region. No one is here, maybe the meeting is over.

Search for all signs of Zia's meeting[]
Located on a rock there is what appears to be something looking like a door. Something might be hidden inside. SAM says there might me a control for the door nearby. Use the scanner to follow the cable to a console. Use it and go back to the door.

Examine dead drop[]
A datapad is located behind the now opened door and nothing else. It's a navpoint. Reyes speculates that it's probably the location of the cargo that Zia left here for the buyer. This complicated arrangement is to avoid Sloane Kelly getting a cut from the deal.

Meet Reyes at the navpoint[]
Head to the Haarfel region (east of the northern Forward Station) and talk to Reyes inside the building at the navpoint to proceed. Turns out there never was any cargo: it was a setup by Zia to trick Reyes into coming. She accuses him for having taken all the good deals in Kadara, so now the smugglers have ganged together to stop him. If you're planning a relationship with Reyes, an opportunity to defend his traits appears here.
Note:  If there are any enemies outside the building, Reyes will not start the conversation. This usually happens with random wildlife spawning outside the building. Kill any nearby enemies and the mission will continue.

Defeat smugglers[]
The enemies consist of Zia and about two Raiders and Sharpshooters each. The two-story indoors battlefield is cramped with large crates, which can obstruct mobility, and the door outside is locked until the smugglers are killed. 
There are two supply caches on the first floor, a health and an ammo one, and there are another two health and ammo caches on the second floor. Enemy behavior sometimes makes them run up the stairs to the second floor. Reyes joins the fight as an unkillable NPC, though you still have to do the bulk of the work since he deals negligible damage.
You can start looting the place once everyone else is dead. There is an Angaran Integrated Tech Node at the top of the stairs (+100). Outside, on top of the building, is another Angaran Integrated Tech Node (+100).
Before leaving the area behind, you can speak with Reyes for his postmortem analysis of the situation. If you're romancing him, another opportunity to strengthen your relationship is also available here.

Aftermath[]
If you flirted with Reyes, one of two emails will be received depending on Ryder's gender.
If Ryder is female:




About Zia
To: Ryder
From: Reyes Vidal In case you were wondering...

My taste in women has improved since I ended things with her.


Reyes


If Ryder is male:




About Zia
To: Ryder
From: Reyes Vidal In case you were wondering...

I have better taste in men than I do in women.


Reyes


Enemies[]
Zia Cordier
Raider
Sharpshooter
Rewards[]
+530 XP
+73 AVP 
+5% Kadara viability



