




Presrop

Region
Milky Way / Hawking Eta / Century / Klendagon





Moon View


Orbital Distance
168,500 km (from Klendagon)


Orbital Period
10.8 Earth Days


Radius
4,113 km


Day Length
10.8 Earth Days


Atm. Pressure
0.1 atm


Surface Temp
−73 °C


Surface Gravity
0.88 g


Mass
0.363 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Hawking Eta / Century System / Klendagon

Contents

1 Description
2 Assignments
3 Points of Interest
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Lifeforms
6 Properties


Description[]
Presrop is the moon of Klendagon. It is a frigid, barren world, with an extremely thin atmosphere of carbon dioxide and ethane. The crust contains plentiful deposits of heavy metals. The Alliance has opened bidding for the moon's mineral rights, but exploitation will be complicated by the system's proximity to the "Five Kiloparsec Ring" around the galactic core. The Ring is an area of intense star formation, and too dangerous to safely travel.
Presrop's landscape is a nightmare of jagged, overlapping ridges and geological shock zones created by some ancient disaster. This has not deterred a generation of illegal "wildcat miners" from attempting to exploit the moon's mineral riches. Unfortunately, many have lost their lives.

Assignments[]
Assignment: UNC: Major Kyle
Collection: UNC: Turian Insignias: Insignias ×1 (Macedyn Outpost)
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals: Heavy Metal ×1 /  Rare Element ×1
Points of Interest[]



Location

Appearance

Description


1

Initial

Biotic commune's compound (UNC: Major Kyle)


2

Initial

Crashed Probe (salvage)


3

Discovery

Wrecked Mining Vehicle (not salvageable)
“The front of the rover is crumpled from impact.  A glance inside tells you the occupants – probably from a team of illegal "wildcat" miners – are dead. Debris is still sliding down the furrows left by its tires, silent in the near-vacuum atmosphere.”




4

Initial

Ancient debris (UNC: Turian Insignias)
  
“Digging under the beacon revealed a piece of scrap metal, likely from a very old freighter. It was marked on one side with the Macedyn Outpost insignia.”




5

Discovery

Abandoned camp (salvage)
“This cluster of prefab utility shacks have a distinctly ramshackle look to them. A set of rover tracks lead away over the mountain ridge to the southwest.”




6

Unmarked

Thresher Maw


7

Unmarked

Mercenaries


Mineral Deposits[]

Main article: UNC: Valuable Minerals


Location

Element

Class


1

Gold

Heavy


2

Uranium

Rare


Lifeforms[]
Biotic Cultists
Thresher Maw
Major Kyle
Mercenaries
Mercenary
Mercenary Adept
Mercenary Anti-Tank
Properties[]
Presrop's operational area has a very light hail of particulate matter. Navigating the terrain may require significant amounts of time climbing through sheer mountain cliffs in order to reach points of interest, though the top of these cliffs are generally stable enough for near-smooth Mako traversal.




