






This article is about the location in Mass Effect 3. For the Presidium in general, see Presidium.


The Presidium Commons is a location in the Presidium on the Citadel. The Presidium Commons features shops, living quarters, a bank, Apollo's Cafe, and Meridian Place Market. The living quarters hallway features an advertisement for the new Blasto movie, and a C-Sec outpost oversees security for the area. One of the support struts above houses Huerta Memorial Hospital, on the same side as Apollo's Cafe.






“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




The Presidium Commons incurs battle damage during the Cerberus attack on the Citadel. Smoke, bullet holes, and debris litter the place, and C-Sec guards increase their presence in the aftermath while cleanup and reconstruction efforts are ongoing.

Points of Interest[]




Bank
Avina is located across from the elevator.
Barla Von can be found here. (Before the attack on the Citadel)
A volus accountant lamenting the lost Book of Plenix can be found here.
A human female conversing with her asari mistress. (Before the attack on the Citadel)
A reluctant civilian and a gung-ho civilian debating how they can help the war effort. Supporting either one rewards 2 Reputation.
A volus banker trying to talk a salarian investor out of closing his account on the Citadel. (After the attack on the Citadel)
An asari scientist trying to find the Prothean Hesperia period statues. (After the attack on the Citadel)
With Leviathan installed, a panel appears by the skycar located directly across of the elevator exit, allowing for rapid transit directly aboard the Normandy or to the Purgatory Bar.
The same panel allows transportation to Silversun Strip if Citadel is installed (as well as to Normandy if Leviathan is not also installed).
Shops:

Kanala Exports
Elkoss Combine Arsenal Supplies




Apartments
In the main hallway across from the entryway to the apartments are two businessmen arguing about what to market. Warning them adds to the Alliance Fifth Fleet War Asset and rewards 2 Reputation.
Narl, one of Aria's men, can be found while negotiating with the Blood Pack.
Miranda Lawson can be found after her third correspondence.
The volus ambassador, Din Korlack, and Zaeed Massani can be encountered in one of the apartments while investigating a lead on a Cerberus mole.
The salarian looking for a fossil can be found on the left corridor on the map. (After the attack on the Citadel)
An advertisement for Blasto 6: Partners in Crime can be heard here.




Apollo's Cafe
Liara T'Soni (Before the attack on the Citadel)
Matriarch Aethyta (Before the attack on the Citadel)
A turian C-Sec officer seeking jamming technology against auto-targeting weaponry. (After the attack on the Citadel)
Kaidan Alenko or Ashley Williams (if they survived prior events).




Courtyard
General Septimus Oraka can be found here.
Rebekah and Michael Petrovsky can be found here.
The salarian Sellea trying to find technology to stabilize the water temperature to help his sister deliver the eggs.
Rupe Elkoss, owner of Elkoss Combine, conversing with Sara, a human female. (Before the attack on the Citadel)
Two nurses talking about their daily work at the hospital. (Before the attack on the Citadel)
An Alliance scientist trying to obtain the Obelisk of Karza. (After the attack on the Citadel)
A human C-Sec officer looking for ways to detect and deactivate Cerberus turrets. (After the attack on the Citadel)
Tali can be found here after the initial meeting with the quarians, arguing with a turian diplomat about medical supplies. If she survived the battle for Rannoch, she will be coordinating Fleet actions with a turian clerk.




C-Sec Outpost
Commander Bailey's assistant can be found here to secure the Eclipse mercenary group for the war effort.
A couple of citizens are plotting an assassination attempt here. (After the attack on the Citadel)




Meridian Place Market
A sales clerk for Aegohr Munitions arguing with a customer about a refund. Supporting either one nets 2 Reputation.
EDI and Joker (Before the attack on the Citadel)
The asari merchant Ereba talking with another asari customer.
Kannik, a black market dealer, can be found here while securing the Blue Suns for Aria.
Liara may also be spotted here, opposite the shops looking at the scenery. (After the attack on the Citadel)
Shops:

Aegohr Munitions
Cipritine Armory
Kassa Fabrication
Nos Astra Sporting Goods

Side missions[]
Aria: Blood Pack
Aria: Blue Suns
Aria: Eclipse
Athena Nebula: Hesperia-Period Statue
Citadel: Asari Widow
Citadel: Barla Von
Citadel: Batarian Codes
Citadel: Cerberus Automated Turret Schematics
Citadel: Cerberus Retribution
Citadel: GX12 Thermal Pipe
Citadel: Heating Unit Stabilizers
Citadel: Kakliosaur Fossil
Citadel: Krogan Dying Message
Citadel: Target Jamming Technology
Citadel: Volus Ambassador
Citadel: Wounded Batarian
Hades Nexus: Obelisk of Karza
Irune: Book of Plenix
Trivia[]
In some early-game instances the damage on the Presidium Commons can be seen even before the Cerberus attack happens.



