



The Council must be informed of the Reaper threat and the Prothean device that may be able to stop the Reapers. Go to Councilor Udina's office on the Citadel and convince the Council to send help for the fight against the Reapers.

Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Priority: Mars

Available once the plot mission on Mars has been completed.

Walkthrough[]
Note: Completion of this mission only hinges on you going to the Citadel Council to discuss your findings. Everything else is optional, but since you're already on the Citadel and some events may not be available afterward, you might as well follow the directions below for completion.
A series of cutscenes shows the Normandy arriving at the Citadel. Liara, James, and Shepard look on as the critically injured Ashley or Kaidan gets carted off by a group of medical personnel to Huerta Memorial Hospital for emergency treatment. Shortly afterwards, a newly-promoted Armando-Owen Bailey shows up to welcome the Commander and inform them that the Council is extremely busy, but to head to Councilor Donnel Udina's office in the Citadel Embassies when Shepard's ready to speak with them. Liara says she'll head there immediately, while Bailey suggests that Shepard should have time to visit the hospital to check on Kaidan or Ashley if they want to. James also splits off on his own. 


After the conversation ends, you regain control and find yourself in the viewing lounge of Normandy Dock: Bay D24. You can talk to journalist Diana Allers, who is attempting to pry information out of Ensign Copeland, a member of your crew. She wants to join the crew of the Normandy, and will be a war asset if you grant her request. You can talk to Avina before going through the security checkpoint and using the elevator; near the hologram, an anxious conversation between an asari and her turian bondmate can be overheard.
At this point in the game, the elevator can only take you to 3 locations: the docking bay (where you currently are), the hospital, and the embassies. Other locations will unlock on your next return to the Citadel. If you travel to Huerta Memorial Hospital, you will find Doctor Chakwas if she survived the Suicide Mission. You can invite her to rejoin the Normandy's crew at this time. If you tell her to stay in the labs, you will have the option of bringing Dr. Chloe Michel on board and also gain Dr. Chakwas as a war asset. Also note that you can simply ignore Michel and/or Chakwas for the time being; however, if you want a ship's doctor, one of them must be chosen before Priority: Tuchanka at the absolute latest. 
At the Sirta Supplies console, you are able to purchase additional medi-gel capacity and also a gift for Ashley or Kaidan. There is also another Avina terminal with some additional information on the hospital facilities. There are many ambient conversations you can listen to at the hospital; behind the main desk you can eavesdrop on a conversation between a therapist and an asari patient who appears to have experienced traumatic events. You can also check with Dr. Michel about the status of Ashley/Kaidan. Continue on through the next two doors and open the door on the right to visit your former crewmate. Once you are finished, return back to the elevator.
Take the elevator to Citadel Embassies, exit, and talk to Avina to learn more about the area. Turn left and find a volus diplomat to pick up the Shrike Abyssal: Prothean Obelisk mission. Return back down the hall and around the corner past the desk and up the stairs. Turn left to enter the C-Sec office and check in with Commander Bailey. After he boots out Khalisah al-Jilani and you've had your first discussion with him, you can have another one for investigative purposes and learn some more about the Citadel and Bailey in general. 
Al-Jilani can be found at the lobby afterwards, standing near Avina, and you can talk to her. She is a potential war asset. There will be opportunities for Paragon or Renegade interrupts in your conversation for corresponding morality rewards.
Back in the hall, find the next door on the left to check out the Spectre Office. At the end of the left corridor is the Spectre Requisitions store, and the Spectre Console where you get status information and perform various Spectre-related tasks throughout the game. The door on the right will take you into the Firing Range, where you can modify your weapons with upgrades and test out their effectiveness on three different targets, one each for shields, armour, and health.
The main destination for this mission is the Earth Councilor's Office, where Udina resides. Go there if you have no more pressing issues to attend to. An asari assistant greets you and leads you to the Council Chambers where you find Liara already meeting with the councilors, including Udina. Things do not look promising: while the non-human Council members don't dismiss the Prothean weapon out of hand, they are skeptical and don't agree to aid in its construction. Worse still, they are all firmly against committing military aid to Earth with their own worlds at risk; respond to them how you wish, but it will be to no avail. 


The meeting adjourned, you and Udina return to his office. The Turian Councilor enters at a somewhat awkward moment and informs you that the turians have lost contact with their leader, Primarch Fedorian, who was preparing to call a war summit; the councilor would like you to rescue him. You have the opportunity to respond somewhat cynically if you're feeling generous, or very cynically if you're in a more spiteful mood. If your Spectre status was not restored in the previous game, it will be restored here. Talk to Udina again if you're the inquisitive type.
When you return to the lobby, James will be looking out a window to the right of the elevator, and you can discuss his feelings about leaving Earth and about the Citadel. If you've had enough of the station for now, depart for the Normandy.


When you return to the ship, a dream sequence ensues. Finding yourself in a dead, bleak forest, you see the child you met on Earth running away. Pursue him. You finally reach him, only to see him engulfed in flames as you try to save him. Alternatively, do nothing for a while, and you'll still eventually see the sequence of the kid being burned.
You wake up to a knock at your cabin door from Liara, who notices that something is bothering you. Your conversation is eventually interrupted by new Comm Specialist Samantha Traynor, who gives you a rundown of some of the features of the Alliance-revamped Normandy SR-2, including the new war room in the CIC where Admiral Hackett is waiting to debrief you on your meeting with the Council. Afterwards, you'll finally have free rein of the Normandy. Be sure to check your private terminal and get acquainted with the crew. When you are ready, go to the CIC and fire up the Galaxy Map for your choice of next destination.

E-mail[]



ReinstatementFrom: Steven Hackett

Commander Shepard: 

This letter formally acknowledges your reinstatement into the Alliance Navy per Admiral David Anderson’s recent verbal communication.

Under Emergency War Powers Reg. 903.5, you are hereby authorized to assume command of the Normandy SR-2. You are directed to begin interdiction operations against any and all enemies posing a threat to Earth, its colonies, and its allies.

Furthermore, you are granted diplomatic authority to establish treaties with non-human races as required to support your mission.

Sincerely,

Admiral Steven Hackett







EMERGENCY FLASH TRAFFIC – URGENTFrom: ALLIANCE FLEET OPERATIONS

**FLASH FLASH FLASH X1A.34**

ALL ALLIANCE MILITARY PERSONNEL: 

THIS IS A GALAXY-WIDE ALERT FOR ALL HUMAN TERRITORIES. FLEET ADMIRAL HACKETT HAS DECLARED THREAT CONDITION SABER ONE. ENEMY PRESENCE CONFIRMED IN SOL SYSTEM. EARTH UNDER REAPER ATTACK.

ALL ALLIANCE MILITARY PERSONNEL ARE DIRECTED TO EVACUATE SOL SYSTEM AT FIRST AVAILABLE OPPORTUNITY. DO NOT ATTEMPT EARTH APPROACH. HEAVY ENEMY RESISTANCE REPORTED. REPEAT. DO NOT ATTEMPT EARTH APPROACH. FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS TO FOLLOW ON CODED CHANNEL CRIMSON TACIT.

EARTH-BASED ALLIANCE PERSONNEL UNABLE TO EVACUATE ARE DIRECTED TO COMMENCE ANY AND ALL NECESSARY COUNTERMEASURES.

ALL REMAINING ALLIANCE PERSONNEL OUTSIDE SOL THEATER ARE DIRECTED TO MUSTER AT PRE-APPOINTED STAGING AREAS AND COMMENCE OFFENSIVE COMBAT OPERATIONS AT FIRST AVAILABLE OPPORTUNITY.

IN ABSENCE OF FURTHER INSTRUCTION, INDEPENDENT ACTION IS AUTHORIZED.





Mass Effect 3 Navigation


← Previous Mission

Mission Index

Next Mission →


Priority: Mars

Missions

Priority: Palaven




