









Bethany Westmoreland
Private

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect 3


Private Bethany Westmoreland is an Alliance soldier serving in the Normandy SR-2. Together with Private Sarah Campbell, they guard the doors separating the CIC and the conference/war rooms. The pair pass the time by being opinionated in the aftermath of Commander Shepard's major missions.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Following Shepard's tepid meeting with the Citadel Council after Mars, Bethany supposes Earth would have focused on its own borders if Thessia was attacked first. After the retrieval of Primarch Adrien Victus from Menae, Bethany thinks he's only a good guy because his homeworld's on fire. He only committed to a war summit at the moment, which the Normandy has to host because the salarians won't even let krogan board their ships. However, she is impressed at the turians' tenacity after seeing feeds from Palaven. After Eve's rescue from Cerberus forces raiding Sur'Kesh, Bethany thinks the salarians could've secured a base on their own homeworld better.
When the situation on Tuchanka has been resolved, Bethany is more relieved that turians and krogan are off the Normandy, figuring those two races in the same room is a fight waiting to happen. After the failed Cerberus coup on the Citadel, Bethany thinks Councilor Udina got what he deserved after making a deal with the devil by helping the terrorists. When Shepard's focus shifts to the geth-quarian war, Bethany feels it's tough to fight only geth when the Reapers have taken half the galaxy.
Following Shepard taking down another Destroyer on Rannoch, Bethany shares Sarah's excitement as it shows the galaxy they can be beaten. However, she briefly loses morale in the aftermath of the mission failure on Thessia, supposing while they can't stop every Reaper there the asari should have joined the war earlier. The slump is rectified with the success of the mission on Horizon, where Bethany questions what kind of soldier voluntarily helps people be turned into husks. Once the Cerberus terrorists have been completely destroyed, Bethany is more than eager to fight at the final battle on Earth, as she doesn't want to tell her future grandkids that she spent the war guarding a door.
During the aftermath of less vital missions Bethany also has opinions on things. She thinks the people on the Citadel will soon notice the war whether they like it or not, as refugees have to go somewhere. She disagrees with Sarah on seeking revenge on people who sat out the war though, sarcastically suggesting they should follow up war with more war.
Sarah has an epiphany on the Reapers' logistical superiority when Bethany points out they don't have colonies to drop asteroids on. Sarah concludes she doesn't know how to beat them, and Bethany dryly remarks to let her know if she also figures out something. Spending most of their time guarding doors, Sarah wonders why it's important when she and Bethany could be on the front lines. Bethany recounts the Collector invasion on the ship and kidnapping of the crew as told to her by Joker, aside from potential security risks caused by war making people stupid.
Bethany listens to Sarah share about her ex-Alliance former friend who joined Cerberus after the geth attack on Eden Prime, figuring she would've lost it too after that event. She notes Cerberus used to be popular as they were the only ones fighting Collectors while the Council did nothing, and thinks Sarah would have been more sympathetic to someone joining the human supremacists' cause. When Sarah tells her Cerberus used to be an Alliance black ops unit, Bethany has a low opinion on black ops in general: if they did something that had to be denied, then it means something was shoddily done in the operation.




