






This article is about the club on the Citadel in Mass Effect 3. For the prison ship in Mass Effect 2, see Purgatory.


The Purgatory Bar is a popular dance club and bar on the Citadel, though it is not known by Avina to be a registered nightclub. It is owned by Aria T'Loak. Various citizens from all races often visit the bar to drink and dance in order to detach themselves from the issues of the war with the Reapers. 






“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Aria uses Purgatory as her base of operations after Omega was taken by Cerberus. She loathes the club, ironically calling it hell, and comments about its inferiority in comparision to Omega's Afterlife Club. However, she can still be found here after retaking Omega.
Should Shepard get drunk in Purgatory, they sleep off the alcohol then wake up next to Aria in the VIP Lounge. If the Commander gets drunk again, they will end up in the elevator outside of Purgatory. At this point, Shepard will be unable to use the bar unless they leave the area and return.

Contents

1 Points of Interest
2 Missions
3 Notes
4 Trivia


Points of Interest[]




VIP Entrance
Alison, a technician looking for an improved power grid (before the attack on the Citadel).
Two turian C-Sec officers complaining about their assignments (before the attack on the Citadel).
An angry elcor complaining about the loss of the Code of the Ancients (after the attack on the Citadel).
A salarian soldier talking enthusiastically about his new Vohrtix armor with his human female friend (after the attack on the Citadel).
With Leviathan installed, a panel appears by the skycar located to the left of the elevator exit, allowing for rapid transit directly aboard the Normandy.
The same panel allows transportation to Silversun Strip if Citadel is installed (as well as to the Normandy if Leviathan is absent).




VIP Lounge
Aria T'Loak
An asari military trainer by the stairs trying to secure ancient texts (after the attack on the Citadel).




Lower Bar
Three turian officers talking about the Banner of the First Regiment.
James Vega, drinking at the bar (before the attack on the Citadel).
Joker, standing near the bar (after the attack on the Citadel).
EDI joins Joker at a table near the turians, if Shepard speaks to him about their relationship.
Jack, sitting near the dance floor, if she survived the Suicide Mission and was evacuated from Jon Grissom Academy.




Dance Floor
Steve Cortez may invite Shepard to join him here after the attack on the Citadel.
EDI, observing strangers dancing (after the attack on the Citadel).
Joker, dancing near EDI if encouraged to pursue a relationship with her after the attack on the Citadel.
Two smugglers from Omega, a human and a turian, arguing about new work, after the attack on the Citadel.
Several asari dancing girls on platforms. A male Shepard can be made to admire them as a way to signal Cortez that he isn't interested in a romance.

Missions[]
Apien Crest: Banner of the First Regiment
Aria: Blood Pack
Aria: Blue Suns
Aria: Eclipse
Citadel: Improved Power Grid
Dekuuna: Code of the Ancients
Nimbus Cluster: Library of Asha
Notes[]
There are two locations unmarked in the map where Shepard can overhear bits of interesting conversation. These can only be heard before the attempted Citadel coup.

A group of drunken soldiers are in the anteroom to Purgatory, talking about (and toasting to) Bilal Osoba's valiant sacrifice.
Just beyond the anteroom, an Alliance soldier named Mel unnerves her fellow shore-leave friend by insisting on male diversions with her in tow.
Trivia[]
The music heard throughout the club is "Staggered Injection" by Ekstrak.
Although referred to several times in dialogue as being on the Wards, the view outside indicates that Purgatory is in fact located on the Presidium, several floors above the Presidium Commons.
The map for this area will incorrectly place several characters at times. Cortez will be shown in the Lower Bar when in fact he's at the bar on the Dance Floor level, and after the attack on Citadel, EDI will not be labeled as standing in the Dance Floor area.



