






This article is about the biotic ability Throw in Mass Effect, Mass Effect 2, and Mass Effect 3. For the Throw skill in Mass Effect: Andromeda, see Throw (skill).

Throw is a biotic ability in Mass Effect, Mass Effect 2, and Mass Effect 3 that uses mass effect fields to hurl a target away from the user with damaging force.

Contents

1 Mass Effect

1.1 Talent Ranks
1.2 Classes


2 Mass Effect 2

2.1 Power Ranks

2.1.1 Heavy Throw
2.1.2 Throw Field


2.2 Player Notes
2.3 Availability


3 Mass Effect 3

3.1 Power Ranks

3.1.1 Rank 1: Throw
3.1.2 Rank 2: Recharge Speed
3.1.3 Rank 3: Force
3.1.4 Rank 4: Force/Radius
3.1.5 Rank 5: Detonate/Recharge Combo
3.1.6 Single Player Rank 6: Double Throw/Recharge Speed
3.1.7 Multiplayer Rank 6: Force and Damage/Recharge Speed


3.2 Player Notes
3.3 Availability


4 Bugs
5 References


Mass Effect[]
Throw is a biotic talent in Mass Effect. Throw is mostly used to keep opponents at a distance by either launching them away or knocking them over, damaging them and rendering them helpless.
In certain areas Throw may knock enemies off ledges, making them fall to their death. If used near destructible objects, Throw can break them and hit enemies with debris. Any moveable boxes can also be Thrown into them, injuring them further as their shields cannot absorb the damage. (However, this applies to the abilities of enemy biotics too, so watch out for nearby objects when fighting them.) In enclosed quarters, Advanced and Master Throw are strong enough to punch enemies against walls and cause significant damage. This technique is especially useful against Thorian Creepers, who aren't physically robust and will be squished by Throw.
The effects of Throw can be compounded to deadly, and often hilarious, effect. When Throw is used in conjunction with Lift, the Lifted target (being above the surrounding environment) can be more easily cast out over a drop or, when used in low gravity environments, launched into open space for an instant kill. Likewise, using throw simultaneously by multiple squad members on a single target compounds the effect, blasting them an often fatal distance. Possibly the best compounding effect can be experienced with Liara T'Soni and Urdnot Wrex as squadmates.  Liara may begin with Singularity drawing multiple targets into a dense space, Wrex and a biotic Shepard can then use upgraded Throw in unison to hit most or all of the floating enemies. This has the added effect of damaging them and providing extra time for your squad to regroup.
Note:  There is a bug where Throw can fail to affect more than one target; see the Bugs section below for details.

Talent Ranks[]

Throw - Throws enemies away from the caster with a force of 600 Newtons. Radius: 4 meters. Recharge time: 60 sec. Accuracy Cost:60%
Increases the force of Throw to 650 Newtons.
Increases the force of Throw to 700 Newtons.
Increases the force of Throw to 750 Newtons.
Increases the force of Throw to 800 Newtons.
Increases the force of Throw to 850 Newtons. Unlocks Lift (Adept, Asari Scientist).
Increases the force of Throw to 900 Newtons. Unlocks Lift (Sentinel, Vanguard).
Advanced Throw - Increases the force of Throw to 1000 Newtons. Radius: 5 meters. Recharge time: 50 sec. Accuracy Cost:45%
Increases the force of Throw to 1050 Newtons.
Increases the force of Throw to 1100 Newtons.
Increases the force of Throw to 1150 Newtons.
Master Throw - Increases the force of Throw to 1250 Newtons. Radius: 6 meters. Recharge time: 40 sec. Accuracy Cost:30%
Classes[]
These classes have access to the Throw talent:

Adept
Sentinel
Vanguard
Asari Scientist
Krogan Battlemaster Unlockable
Mass Effect 2[]
Hurls enemies through the air using a powerful biotic field.
Power Ranks[]

Rank 1 - Using mass effect fields, hurls targets away and damages them if they hit objects.
Recharge Time: 3.00 seconds (Shepard); 9.00 seconds (others)
Force: 500.00 newtons
Rank 2 - Using mass effect fields, hurls targets away and damages them if they hit objects.
Recharge Time: 3.00 seconds (Shepard); 9.00 seconds (others)
Recharge Time: 3.00 seconds (Shepard); 9.00 seconds (others)
Force: 700.00 newtons
Rank 3 - Using mass effect fields, hurls targets away and damages them if they hit objects.
Recharge Time: 3.00 seconds (Shepard); 9.00 seconds (others)
Recharge Time: 3.00 seconds (Shepard); 9.00 seconds (others)
Force: 900.00 newtons

Rank 4
Evolves Throw into one of the following options:

Heavy Throw[]
Fling a single enemy with unparalleled momentum, smashing it against walls with hurricane force.
Recharge Time: 3.00 seconds (Shepard); 9.00 seconds (others)
Force: 1200.00 newtons
Throw Field[]
Your mastery of biotic throws allows you to hurl multiple targets into the air simultaneously.
Recharge Time: 3.00 seconds (Shepard); 9.00 seconds (others)
Force: 900.00 newtons
Impact Radius: 3.00 meters
Player Notes[]
When fired by Shepard, this biotic power travels in the direction of the cross-hair, arcing towards the target. Like most projectile powers, Throw can be arced around objects and cover to hit targets without exposing the player. When fired by squadmates (e.g. Thane, Samara, or Morinth), this power will travel in a straight line, instantly hitting the target.
Throw's distance and damage is based on both your rank of Throw and the weight of the target (i.e. a heavier enemy won't be thrown very far). Use Pull, Singularity or Slam to reduce a target's mass and then Throw them for maximum damage and distance.
The power seeks the target in an arc. The direction when it finally hits determines the direction the target is thrown. Aiming below the center of mass on a target will throw it into the air, while aiming up will knock it down. Aiming too low will cause it to impact the floor and fail. With practice, you will find it much easier to knock targets off ledges for environmental kills on some levels.
In some environments, enemies thrown into the sky or ceiling are automatically killed.
The direction of a squadmate's Throw is determined by the squadmate's position, not the player position.
Throw is highly effective even at Rank 1 for "crowd control" and pushing back unprotected enemies that try to close with you, such as most melee foes, shotgun-wielding opponents like krogan, and LOKI/FENRIS mechs.
LOKI Mechs are usually damaged by Throw, often losing limbs or even being destroyed outright by the impacts.
Throw is also great against husks. Husks are instantly killed when lifted off the ground, and Abominations detonate from colliding with terrain, so once they are stripped of their protection, hit them with Throw for instant kills.
Frozen enemies can be shattered if thrown into objects. There is a small chance that they shatter outright, not just from running out of health. Enemies are immune to Throw while freezing and thawing.
Availability[]
Adept
Sentinel
Thane
Samara
Morinth
Mass Effect 3[]


Power Ranks[]
Rank 1: Throw[]
Toss your enemy through the air with this biotic blast.

Recharge Speed: 4 sec (Shepard)
Force: 600 N


Rank 2: Recharge Speed[]
Increase recharge speed by 25%.

Recharge Speed: 3.20 sec (Shepard)
Force: 600 N


Rank 3: Force[]
Increase force by 30%.

Recharge Speed: 3.20 sec (Shepard)
Force: 780 N


Rank 4: Force/Radius[]



Force
Increase force by 40%.

Recharge Speed: 3.20 sec (Shepard)
Force: 1020 N


Radius
Increase impact radius by 2 meters.




Rank 5: Detonate/Recharge Combo[]



Detonate
Increase force and damage of biotic detonations by 50%.



Recharge Combo
Reset recharge time after a biotic combo detonates.




Single Player Rank 6: Double Throw/Recharge Speed[]



Double Throw
Launch two Throw projectiles that seek two targets instead of one.



Recharge Speed
Increase recharge speed by 60%.

Recharge Speed: 2.16 sec (Shepard)
Force: 1020 N (Force), 780 N (Radius)



Multiplayer Rank 6: Force and Damage/Recharge Speed[]



Force & Damage
Increase force by 50% and do an additional 200 damage on impact.

Recharge Speed: 3.20 sec
Force: 1320 N (Force), 1080 N (Radius)


Recharge Speed
Increase recharge speed by 60%.

Recharge Speed: 2.16 sec
Force: 1020 N (Force), 780 N (Radius)



Player Notes[]
Mechanics
The displayed damage for the multiplayer-exclusive Force and Damage evolution is affected by power damage bonuses, 200 is the base damage.
With the single-player rank 6 evolution Double Throw, the second projectile will track nearby hidden or cloaked hostiles as long as the player has locked onto a different nearby target. This is useful against Phantoms and Geth Hunters. Double Throw without a locked target will just shoot both projectiles forward.
Throw will detonate all the types of Power Combos. This, coupled with its low recharge speed, makes it very useful in a power-heavy party.
In single-player, the Double Throw evolution makes Throw one of the few powers able to detonate multiple Power Combos with a single use.
If two separate enemies are each primed for a combo, a single use of Throw with the Double Throw evolution can detonate both combos if each projectile strikes both enemies.
If an enemy is primed for two different types of Power Combos, Double Throw can detonate them both, with the first projectile detonating the effect that was applied most recently and the second projectile detonating the effect that was applied earlier. This will only occur if there are no other nearby enemies for the second projectile to lock on to.
With the Radius evolution, every Throw projectile can hit up to 2 targets within the radius.
Strategies
Throw has a low base cooldown and can be useful for creating distance between the player and melee threats such as Husks or Abominations.
The Multiplayer rank 6 Force & Damage Evolution can make this power so damaging to unprotected enemies that, with its rapid recharge time and travel speed, it can be spammed as a main means of dealing damage, more effectively so than Warp.
Using Throw to trigger Biotic Explosions on enemies affected by Reave or Warp is one of the most effective strategies against tougher units, such as Banshees, Brutes, and Atlases. This is particularly the case for Human Sentinels and Asari Adepts, who have both Warp and Throw. An N7 Fury Adept can also use this strategy with Dark Channel or Annihilation Field and Throw. While there are many other ways to set up Biotic Explosions, Warp, Reave, Annihilation Field, and Dark Channel can prime any enemy for biotic combos regardless of protections.
The rank 5 Detonate evolution is recommended for maximum damage.
Using this strategy exclusively on big targets like an Atlas can also clear out smaller enemies in close proximity such as Combat Engineers. This tactic also works well on Brutes, staggering them and slowing their advance; Ravagers, clearing out nearby Swarmers; Geth Primes, clearing out their turrets and drones; and Geth Pyros, damaging and revealing nearby Hunters.
The power-blocking abilities of Banshees, Phantoms, and Praetorians can stymie attempts to repeatedly combo them. Learning the patterns and triggers for their power immunity helps.
Throw (along with Pull) has one of the fastest recharge times of any power. This means that a fairly heavy loadout of weapons can be carried and still allow Throw to be used often enough to be effective. The rank 5 Recharge Combo evolution can further enable this playstyle.
Availability[]
Single-player: Adept, Sentinel, Samara
Multiplayer: Asari Adept, N7 Fury Adept, Human Sentinel
Bugs[]
In Mass Effect, Throw, along with the Lift and Warp talents, suffer from a bug where they can fail to apply to more than one target, even when multiple targets are within the radius of effect. This bugged behavior occurs when the player targets an enemy with the reticle directly over said enemy (i.e. the enemy is in the very center of the HUD). This occurs for the player's own Throw, Lift, or Warp, or a squadmate's that the player is ordering them to use. The only known workaround is to try not to have the targeting reticle directly over an enemy when using one of these biotics.[1]
References[]

↑ Talk




Mass Effect Talents


Biotic

Barrier • Lift • Singularity • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Assault Rifles • Pistols • Shotguns • Sniper Rifles • Assault Training • Fitness • Basic Armor • Combat Armor • Tactical Armor


Tech

Damping • Decryption • Electronics • First Aid • Hacking • Medicine


Class

Adept • Asari Scientist • Engineer • Infiltrator • Krogan Battlemaster • Quarian Machinist • Sentinel • Soldier • Turian Agent • Vanguard


Player only

Charm • Intimidate • Spectre Training



Mass Effect 2 Powers


Ammo

Armor-Piercing Ammo • Cryo Ammo • Disruptor Ammo • Incendiary Ammo • Shredder Ammo • Warp Ammo


Biotic

Barrier • Charge • Dominate • Pull • Reave • Shockwave • Singularity • Slam • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Adrenaline Rush • Concussive Shot • Flashbang Grenade • Fortification • Inferno Grenade • Shadow Strike


Tech

AI Hacking • Combat Drone • Cryo Blast • Energy Drain • Geth Shield Boost • Incinerate • Neural Shock • Overload • Tactical Cloak • Tech Armor


Player only

Assault Mastery • Biotic Mastery • Combat Mastery • Defender • Operative • Tech Mastery • Unity


Squadmate Class

Ardat Yakshi • Asari Justicar • Asari Scientist • Cerberus Officer • Cerberus Operative • Turian Rebel • Drell Assassin • Geth Infiltrator • Krogan Berserker • Master Thief • Mercenary Veteran • Quarian Machinist • Salarian Scientist • Subject Zero



Mass Effect 3 Powers


Ammo

Armor-Piercing Ammo • Cryo Ammo • Disruptor Ammo • Incendiary Ammo • Warp Ammo


Biotic

Annihilation Field • Barrier • Biotic Focus • Biotic Hammer • Biotic Orbs • Biotic Protector • Biotic Slash • Biotic Sphere • Charge • Cluster Grenade • Dark Channel • Dark Sphere • Dominate • Flare • Lash • Lift Grenade • Nova • Poison Strike • Pull • Reave • Seeker Swarm • Shockwave • Singularity • Slam • Smash • Stasis • Throw • Warp • Warp Ammo


Combat

Adrenaline Rush • Arc Grenade • Ballistic Blades • Blade Armor • Bloodlust • Cain Trip Mine • Carnage • Concussive Shot • Devastator Mode • Fortification • Frag Grenade • Hawk Missile Launcher • Inferno Grenade • Marksman • Multi-Frag Grenade • Nightshade Blades • Phase Disruptor • Proximity Mine • Recon Mine • Repair Matrix • Sticky Grenade • Stimulant Pack


Tech

Armor-Piercing Arrows • Combat Drone • Concussive Arrows • Cryo Blast • Decoy • Defense Drone • Defense Matrix • Electric Slash • Electrical Hammer • Energy Drain • Flamer • Geth Turret • Havoc Strike • Hex Shield • Homing Grenade • Hunter Mode • Incinerate • Overload • Sabotage • Sentry Turret • Shadow Strike • Shield Boost • Siege Pulse • Snap Freeze • Submission Net • Supply Pylon • Tactical Cloak • Tactical Scan • Tech Armor


Fitness

Fitness (Adept) • Fitness (Engineer) • Fitness (Infiltrator) • Fitness (Sentinel) • Fitness (Soldier) • Fitness (Vanguard)


Fitness (multiplayer)

Advanced Hardware • Ancient Warrior • Fitness Module • Hardened Platform • Omni-Bow Mastery • Rage • Shield Mastery • Sword Mastery • T5-V Internal Systems • Venom Gauntlets • Warlord Rage


Player Class

Assault Mastery • Biotic Mastery • Combat Mastery • Offensive Mastery • Operational Mastery • Tech Mastery


Player Class (multiplayer)

Alliance Training • Armiger Legion • Asari Huntress • Asari Justicar • Asari Valkyrie • Batarian Enforcer • Drell Assassin • Elite Mercenary • Geth Juggernaut • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Krogan Warlord • N7 Demolisher • N7 Fury • N7 Paladin • N7 Shadow • N7 Slayer • Networked AI • Phoenix Training • Quarian Defender • Salarian Operative • T5-V Battlesuit • Turian Veteran • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient • Volus Training • Vorcha Resilience


Squadmate Class

Alliance Admiral • Alliance Officer • Arms Master • Asari Justicar • Biotic Boss • Cerberus Officer • Cerberus Operative • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Master Thief • Mercenary Veteran • Pure Biotic • Quarian Machinist • Subject Zero • Turian Huntress • Turian Rebel • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient




