









Rachni Queen

Race
Rachni


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass EffectMass Effect 3


Rachni queens are the matriarchs of the hive-minded, insectoid rachni species. The largest of their species at about fifty feet long, queens are powerful and intelligent creatures who guide the soldiers and workers of their broods with a form of telepathic “song,” which also allows them to speak through "receptive" beings of other species. Queens also carry the genetic memory of their mothers, causing them to effectively be born with the collective knowledge of the previous hive. 
Queens resemble brood warriors but are much larger, with darker skin and glowing eyes. Though queens are usually mated to brood warriors, the reproductive processes of the rachni do not necessarily require a male. Queens carry the genetic information of their fathers inside them, allowing them to lay eggs even if no brood warriors are present. They are said to be able to lay a massive amount of eggs every few hours, resulting in an entire rachni colony within days.
Rachni queens live in nests deep underground, often on planets with harsh environments. This presented a problem for the Citadel Council during the Rachni Wars, as it was impossible for Council representatives to contact the queens in their nests in order to negotiate peace. After attempts to halt the rachni advance failed, the krogan entered the fray, infiltrated the rachni nests, killed the queens on every world, and hunted the rachni to total extinction.

Contents

1 Mass Effect
2 Mass Effect 2
3 Mass Effect 3
4 Trivia
5 References







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
“We are the mother. We sing for those left behind. The children you thought silenced.”

A rachni vessel escaped the conflict and was left adrift with many eggs in cryogenic suspension. A corporation called Binary Helix later found the vessel and brought an egg to the icy planet Noveria to hatch it, planning to clone the rachni inside to mass-produce an army, but instead of a worker as they’d expected, the egg hatched into a queen. 
The Queen began to lay eggs, which Binary Helix removed from her presence shortly after birth to train the brood as obedient soldiers, only to discover that rachni must develop close to a queen so that her mind can shape theirs and soothe them. Without the song of a queen to guide them, the rachni are driven insane and escape, infiltrating and heavily damaging the facilities at Peak 15.
Matriarch Benezia, acting on orders of Saren Arterius, planned to use the rachni to destroy Saren's enemies, but Benezia needed more from this queen than her eggs. Using her biotics, Benezia takes the coordinates for the Mu Relay from the Rachni Queen's mind, drawing on the rachni's genetic memory.
When Commander Shepard arrives and defeats Benezia, the Queen sees the opportunity to appeal to Shepard for forgiveness, using the body of one of Benezia's commandos to translate. The conversation gives the implication that the rachni queens are influenced by a 'sour yellow note', "a tone from space [that] hushed one voice after another", implying they were not fully responsible for the Rachni Wars. Wanting only to rebuild her species peacefully, the Queen humbly asks what Shepard would do - kill her with the lab's acid tanks, consigning her to the "great silence", or free her instead.
If the Queen is freed, she escapes into the wilds of Noveria, remembering the kindness Shepard showed and intending to pass those lessons on to her new offspring. The turian Council representative is concerned that the rachni could challenge the Citadel again in a few generations, but Shepard can argue that this queen is not like her ancestors. 
If Shepard chooses to kill the Rachni Queen, she tries once more to appeal by asking if fear of the rachni's threat factored in the decision. If Shepard ignores the appeal, the Queen decides to live and attempts to have her thrall manipulate the controls. Shepard pushes the dying commando away and personally activates the acid bath. Later, the Council scolds Shepard for making the rachni extinct once more, with the turian representative asking whether humans take pleasure in the genocide of other races.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]

If the Rachni Queen was set free, a newscast reports sightings of elusive scout ships consistent with rachni design. The Queen also sends a message to Shepard through an asari the Commander meets in the city of Nos Astra on the planet Illium. The asari, who remains unnamed, claims to have been working as a courier before crash-landing on an uncharted planet after an encounter with hostile pirates. Badly wounded, the asari was pulled from the brink of death by the rachni, and during her recovery she developed a profound bond with the Queen and her new brood, calling the rachni "beautiful" and "vulnerable". 
Now serving as a courier again, the asari relays the Queen's gratitude to Shepard for freeing her and allowing the rachni to live again. If questioned about their whereabouts, the asari says she couldn't reveal the location of the rachni's new home even if she wanted to, as that information was "removed" from her mind, but she reassures the Commander that the Queen has no hostile intent; quite the opposite, as the Queen promises her aid to Shepard "against the coming darkness."
If the Rachni Queen was killed, it is revealed in a news report that data recovered from the Peak 15 facility on Noveria points to the cloning of rachni in the facility but none being found.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3[]

If the Rachni Queen survived on Noveria, she is captured by the Reapers in 2186. She has grown considerably in size since Noveria, and she proves to be immune (or at least highly resistant) to indoctrination, and as a result the Reapers are forced to use physical restraints to hold her captive. She is located on Utukku, deep within a perversion of a rachni hive filled with Reaper technology. Her young are indoctrinated and converted into Ravagers for the Reapers' forces. Shepard can choose to free her in exchange for her support against the Reapers, albeit sacrificing Aralakh Company. If Grunt survived the Suicide Mission and was loyal to the mission, he manages to survive, albeit with several injuries.
If Shepard chooses to leave the Queen, she will accept her fate calmly, stating that she will "embrace the silence." She then presumably dies either from her injuries or at the hands of her Reaper-mutated children.
If the Rachni Queen died in 2183, then the Reapers will construct an artificial queen so they can have a rachni army to turn into Ravagers. If Shepard chooses to free this queen, then unlike the queen from Noveria, this artificial queen eventually proves untrustworthy after a few missions, taking away the rachni workers she gave at first and doing damage to the Alliance Engineering Corps on her way out. If Shepard chooses to leave the artificial queen, she will become enraged, screaming at Shepard through the krogan corpses strewn about and ordering her Ravagers to kill Shepard and their squad.

Trivia[]
According to The Art of Mass Effect, the design of the Rachni Queen was influenced by the appearance of beetles and insects. This book, in addition, gives the length of the Queen as fifty feet long.
According to The Art of the Mass Effect Universe, the Queen was to be winged and bioluminescent, before she was overhauled to more closely resemble Rachni workers and soldiers.
Dr. Ann Bryson speculates that the Queen is not actually telepathic, but uses pheromones for short-ranged communication. Across the vast distances of space, rachni queens are speculated to have used some sort of organic quantum entanglement communicator to control their populace, similar to how the Leviathans communed with their artifacts and through them their servants.
According to Mass Effect Legendary Edition gameplay statistics as of July 27, 2021, 93% of players allowed the Queen to live while 7% killed her on the first game. In Mass Effect 3 the percentages are the same: 93% allowed the Queen to live again while 7% killed her.[1]
References[]

↑ https://twitter.com/masseffect/status/1420036454042857472





