


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 







Dr. Ramirez
Medical Specialist

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Dr. Ramirez is the chief medical doctor assigned to Prodromos, on the planet Eos. He assists Mayor August Bradley by seeing to settlers that require medical care of all sorts. Ramirez is located in the second floor of the building across from the mayor's usual hangout.






“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Originally a medic in the Alliance military, Ramirez experienced numerous batarian slave raids in his career. He grew weary of it, and desired a better frontier. 
Ramirez and Bradley were acquaintances for years. They served in the same squad: it was the doctor who tended to Bradley when he was injured, and they kept in touch after the latter's discharge. When Bradley signed up with the Initiative, he told Ramirez to also consider joining.
The doctor likes to tease the mayor by referring to him by his first name.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Dr. Ramirez can be asked about life on Eos, and his responses adjust accordingly as time passes. In the early days of Prodromos, if it was founded as a military outpost, Dr. Ramirez is reminded of his Alliance days. He notes the soldiers are young and eager, confident that they'll make things work. If it was founded as a scientific outpost, the doctor reports everyone is pitching in.
In the beginning, the doctor's clinic consists of minor colonist check-ups and some cases of desert-related ailments. Once Prodromos has grown prosperous enough, Dr. Ramirez shares that he has been talking with August to turn the clinic into a full-fledged hospital. He doesn't want to be its director, preferring to remain hands-on with his patients.
After Meridian's activation, a hot topic around is asking what it means for people. Dr. Ramirez is clueless what to look for, so Ryder just shares they were there when Meridian activated and they're still fine. The doctor chuckles at the Pathfinder's resilience.
If the Roekaar assault Prodromos, Dr. Ramirez is reminded of his run-ins with batarian slavers while he was with the Alliance. Fortunately, he credits Pathfinder Ryder's assistance and the people around him in the aftermath of the unsuccessful attack.




