







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.











Rampart Mech




Faction
Cerberus


Type
Synthetic


Armament
M-23 KatanaOmni-Blade


Abilities
 Hunter-Killer Mode Energy Shield Post-Mortem Shock


Armor
Moderate


Locations
Omega


The Rampart Mech is a Cerberus unit encountered in Mass Effect 3. Cerberus uses Rampart Mechs to contain and control Omega's civilian populace.

Contents

1 Description
2 Capabilities
3 Tactics
4 Trivia


Description[]
Though its initial invasion of Omega was successful, Cerberus was soon faced with the problem of controlling the station's large and often lawless population. An initial solution was to establish detainment areas bordered with impassable force fields, believed to be sheets of plasma suspended in a magnetic field. As Cerberus tightened its control of the station, units that could pass freely through the force fields to police the populace became necessary, leading Cerberus engineers to recover LOKI security mechs from the remaining Eclipse mercenary chapters. When upgraded with Cerberus's proprietary mini-fabrication technology, shielding recovered from Omega's element zero processing plants, and additional ablative armor, the result was the Rampart mech, a flexible combat unit designed for control and intimidation of Omega's inhabitants. 
Rampart mechs can seek out targets or troublemakers anywhere on Omega, even lower industrial areas where radiation can be intense. It is fitted with infrasound and scent markers that are "fight or flight" triggers for several species and are intended to subdue or disperse a crowd. When necessary, Rampart mechs can channel all available power into generating a high-intensity shield that defends against hacking or biotic attacks and weapons fire, protecting the Rampart until reinforcements arrive. For combat, most Rampart mechs are equipped with a standard issue shotgun; if damaged beyond repair, the Rampart mech destroys the shotgun's aluminum-alloy heat-dispersal sinks, coating any nearby assailants in red-hot residue that burns through armor.
In extreme situations, the Rampart mech overclocks into a "hunter-killer" mode, diverting power from its unique shields to single-mindedly destroy its target. In this mode, the Rampart mech moves faster, attacking with a flash-forged omni-blade that targets unprotected nerve clusters and immobilizes the luckless target. The Rampart also channels excess heat through the dispersal sinks, visibly burning off material to create an intimidating display as it advances.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Rampart Mechs are armed with a shotgun for mid-range target suppression and an omni-blade for melee fights. Even though their shotguns do little damage except at close ranges, Ramparts move far more quickly than the LOKI Mechs they were developed from. A Rampart Mech can enter "hunter-killer mode" where it will charge aggressively into close range; this mode is indicated by the mech emitting a wailing sound, its eyes glowing, and holographic orange effects similar to Tech Armor appearing on its body.
When destroyed, Rampart remains discharge glowing red energy for a short period which can continuously damage and stun opponents in close contact. 
Defensive
Rampart Mechs are armored and relatively durable, but are programmed to rapidly close the distance with any targets and thus seek cover only infrequently compared to other enemies. At a distance, they can activate powerful shields that protect against most long-range incoming fire and powers, but this prevents them from advancing. This shield is not deployed once once a Rampart enters hunter-killer mode. Ramparts also possess thrusters that they can use to ascend or descend vertical distances.

Tactics[]
Ramparts are vulnerable to headshots. A single headshot from a powerful sniper rifle like the Javelin will kill them in one hit, even on Insanity. The M-11 Suppressor is also highly effective.
The Venom Shotgun's charged shots easily destroy Ramparts in groups, shields or no shields.
Like all synthetics, Rampart Mechs are vulnerable to Sabotage and can be turned into temporary allies.
A Rampart Mech affected by Sabotage utilizing the Explosive Hack evolution will not leave behind glowing remains.
Incendiary Ammo is particularly effective due to its bonus against armor.
Since Rampart Mechs do not dodge powers, abilities such as Warp and Incinerate are effective.
Lighting them on fire with either Aria T'Loak's Carnage or Nyreen Kandros's Incinerate and detonating them will cause heavy damage, even on Insanity.
Ramparts will attack Combat Drones, Sentry Turrets, and Decoys and they are fairly vulnerable to the various stunning effects of those powers. Decoy in particular is an effective distraction.
Their shield will not protect against penetrating weapon rounds.
Be wary during the fight to disarm the bombs on Omega, as during this encounter Ramparts can drop in on you from above unexpectedly.
Trivia[]
Rampart Mechs are one of the few enemy types that can't be fought in the Armax Arsenal Arena combat simulator.
Ramparts' four red slit-shaped "eyes"—two on each side slanting downwards towards the center of their heads—are very similar to the look of the Cerberus Phantom.


Mass Effect 3 Enemies


CAT6

Brooks • CAT6 Heavy • CAT6 Sniper • CAT6 Specialist • Clone • Disruption Drone


Cerberus

Adjutant • Assault Trooper • Atlas • Centurion • Combat Engineer • Dragoon • Dr. Eva • Guardian • Kai Leng • Legion Assassin • Nemesis • Phantom • Rampart Mech • Turret


Collectors

Abomination (Possessed) • Collector Captain (Possessed) • Collector Trooper (Possessed) • Collector Web • Praetorian (Possessed) • Scion (Possessed) • Seeker Swarm (Plague)


Geth

Combat Drone • Geth Bomber • Geth Hunter • Geth Prime • Geth Pyro • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Trooper • Geth Turret


Reapers

Banshee • Brute • Cannibal • Harvester • Husk • Marauder • Ravager • Swarmer




