




Rannoch

Region
Milky Way / Perseus Veil / Tikkun





Planet View


Orbital Distance
0.72 AU


Orbital Period
0.64 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.911


Radius
6,021 km


Day Length
32.3 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.93 atm


Surface Temp
48 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.89 g


Mass
0.787 Earth Masses


Satellites
1


Location: Milky Way / Perseus Veil / Tikkun System /  First planet


Homeworld

Species
Quarian


Population
Unknown. Quarian estimates on the number of geth range from the tens of millions to the single-digit billions. Estimates on the number of geth consciousnesses stored in servers are far higher.



Prerequisite: Priority: Perseus Veil (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Additional Information
4 Missions
5 External Links


Description[]
Although its orange sun is only about 90% the mass of Sol and half as luminous, Rannoch is arid by Earth standards because it formed closer to its star and has slightly less ocean coverage. Photosynthetic life is concentrated around rivers and oceans, with large expanses of desert in between. The importance of plant life and shade in ancient quarian culture is evident in the translation of Rannoch's name--"walled garden."
To a starship's sensors, the most obvious feature of the quarian homeworld is the numerous heat sources in orbit. Thousands of geth space stations watch over the planet. Somewhere in this artificial swarm of constructions lurks the geth armada, waiting for its moment to counterattack.


Codex Entry[]





Audio: Rannochhttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Codex_me3_-_rannoch.ogg

The planet Rannoch, an arid planet orbiting an older star in the Tikkun system, is the former quarian homeworld. Almost three hundred years ago, the quarians were driven from Rannoch by the geth, synthetic servants who gained sapience and rebelled against their creators. Although Rannoch is now largely uninhabited, the geth have acted as caretakers, working to repair the planet's ecology, restore ancient structures, and cultivate some farmland.
Rannoch has no insect life. As a result, its pollinating plants evolved to rely on animals for propagation. This symbiosis between flora and fauna is responsible for the quarians' weakened immune systems, which made colonization of other planets extremely difficult after their exile from Rannoch. For many quarians, reclaiming their homeworld from the geth is a matter of both cultural and physiological necessity.


Additional Information[]
Other known lifeforms native to the quarian homeworld include the qorach, an animal analogous to a carnivorous bighorn sheep whose bellies are always covered in blue-green fern pollen and seed casings. The blind newborn offspring of a qorach is called ke'sed (alternatively kes'ed).
The lemek worm is a planarian analogue that can grow into new lemeks after being cut to pieces. They're small, slender, and covered in metallic rose-colored scales.
The fa'yin is an edible nut that existed on Rannoch around the time of the first proto-quarian beasts.

Missions[]
Mission: Citadel: Reaper Code Fragments
Mission: Citadel: Target Jamming Technology
Mission: Priority: Rannoch
Mission: Rannoch: Admiral Koris
Mission: Rannoch: Geth Fighter Squadrons
External Links[]
Mass Effect 3: Story - Rannoch



