




Raya'Zufi vas Keelah Si'yah
Ark Passenger

Race
Quarian


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect Andromeda: Annihilation


Raya'Zufi vas Keelah Si'yah is a child who went along with her parents on a voyage across galaxies aboard the Andromeda Initiative starship Keelah Si'yah. Unwilling to enter cryostasis without her toys, her mother had her choose between a toy volus with glowing eyes or a plush green keeper doll with plastic claws. She kept the keeper doll and, after singing the lullaby My Suit and Me, went to sleep along with the thousands of other ark passengers to awaken in the distant Andromeda galaxy 600 years after their departure from the Milky Way in 2186.







“By the homeworld I hope to find one day.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect Andromeda: Annihilation follow.




Mass Effect Andromeda: Annihilation[]
Raya's family have their belongings stored in Crate NN1469P/R. An eclectic assortment of items fill the crate's relatively meager size, many of it belonging to the child: a few things that glow in the dark, a small bedside omni-tool-shaped lightdome, a tea party set with at least one manmade hearts-and-butterflies cup and a Thessalian spice pot, a case of contraband Horosk from Palaven's cellars, an Adas Anti-Synthetic Rifle, an environmental suit with a lavender patterned hood for Raya to wear on arrival in Andromeda. Beneath Raya's stuffed volus there's also an old krogan kid's microscope with an overly aggressive VI, 4 supplementary power packs, a full-color manual and 16 prepackaged slides containing flora and fauna samples from the Milky Way.
During a medical crisis that develops 3 decades before expected arrival in Andromeda, Raya's family crate is ransacked by Sleepwalker Team Blue-7 for items they would need to determine what sort of pathogen is killing passengers in cryostasis. Anax Therion's drell recall leads them to the krogan microscope, but it proves too stressful to be of any use. Raya's environmental suit, nicknamed Horatio by the doctor Yorrik, allows him to perform fairly advanced diagnostics and treatment tests in light of the concurrent software breakdowns across the ark. 
The computer malfunctions eventually lead to enforced revival of some passengers in the ark. Raya and her mother are among them, and they congregate with other awakened quarians in their sterile corner of the ship while the Sleepwalkers deal with the situation. However, the raging Fortinbras Plague claims Raya as a victim despite her supposedly hermetic suit. Suit designer Irit Non theorizes that Raya's suit breached due to its patchwork nature and despite the stringent testing the quarians normally put their suits to.
Raya's heavy corpse is hauled up by Irit from Mess Hall 4 to the medbay to demonstrate to Yorrik that everyone on the ship is at risk.




