




Reckoner Knight Armor






Effects
+10% Health+10% Shields+10% Weapon Damage+20% Melee Damage


Availability
Play the demo for Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning



The Reckoner Knight Armor is a non-customizable armor in Mass Effect 3, available as part of a cross-promotion with Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning. The armor is also available in Mass Effect Legendary Edition.

Contents

1 Description
2 Acquisition
3 Player Notes
4 Trivia
5 See Also
6 References


Description[]
The Reckoner-Knight armor was originally worn by the winners of Earth's Urban Combat Championship 2186, the Rhode Island Knights. A military-grade version of this equipment was presented to longtime Knight fans at the Alliance's Rhode Island base, in thanks for their passionate (and vocal) support during the EUCC championship matches. Beneath this armor's medieval-gothic facade lie a host of biofeedback systems intended to monitor the wearer's health and combat performance. Micro-servos maximize damage done in close-quarters combat, while a beefed-up power cell feeds energy into weapons systems to increase projectile velocity. Befitting gear originally designed for a full-contact sport, a sophisticated shield system also offers the wearer solid protection from incoming attacks.

Acquisition[]
The armor is available after downloading and playing the demo for Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning. You will need to link your EA/BioWare account to your game to register the promotions.
PS3 owners will need to download and play the Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning demo before playing Mass Effect 3 for the Reckoner Knight Armor to unlock.
Note: EA has now stopped supporting the KoA:R Demo and has shut down its servers. As such there is no longer a legitimate way to obtain this armor in the original Mass Effect 3 other than through an EA customer support representative, and even that might not work.
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition, it is available from Kanala Exports on the Citadel for a base price of 40,000 credits.
The item has an accompanying e-mail message for confirmation of availability. 




Armor from your fansFrom: Joker

Hey, Commander: We just got a shipment of armor delivered to the Normandy. It's from a group of Alliance soldiers who used to be stationed at Rhode Island. Don't know how they found us. They left a note that just says: "You'll need this more than we do."

The armor's called "Reckoner-Knight" or something. You can check it out in the equipment locker. Man, those arm spikes look like they could take out an eye.


Joker


Player Notes[]
This armor's benefits are well suited for a player that wants to focus on melee combat.
Trivia[]
The Reckoner Knight Armor was designed by Todd McFarlane, creator of Spawn.[1]
Like the Blood Dragon Armor, the Reckoner Knight Armor was originally designed to be used in the Earth's Urban Combat Championship before a military-grade version was created.
The e-mail stating that the armor was from Alliance soldiers stationed in Rhode Island is reference to 38 Studios, the creators of Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning, who were based out of Providence, Rhode Island.
See Also[]
Chakram Launcher: An assault rifle also obtainable by completing the Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning demo.
References[]

↑ http://investor.ea.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=638555






Mass Effect 3 Armor




Armor Customization


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Ajax Armor • Cerberus Armor • Cerberus Nightmare ArmorCerberus Shade Armor • Cerberus Spirit Armor • Collector Armor • Inferno Armor • N7 Defender ArmorReckoner Knight Armor • Terminus Assault Armor





Mass Effect 3 Downloadable Content




Promotional

AT-12 Raider • Chakram Launcher • Collector Rifle • M-55 Argus  M-90 Indra • N7 Collector's Edition Pack • N7 Warfare Gear • Reckoner Knight Armor


Single-Player

From Ashes • Extended Cut • Firefight Pack • Leviathan • Groundside Resistance Pack  Alternate Appearance Pack 1 • Omega • Citadel • Genesis 2


Multiplayer

Online Pass • Resurgence Pack • Rebellion Pack • Earth • Retaliation • Reckoning




