


Dr. Mordin Solus is a salarian biological weapons expert whose technology may hold the key to countering Collector attacks. He is currently operating a medical clinic in the slums of Omega.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Preparation
3 Walkthrough

3.1 Arrival on Omega
3.2 Into The Plague
3.3 The Slums of Omega
3.4 Mordin's Clinic
3.5 To Environmental Control
3.6 Environmental Control
3.7 Mordin's Clinic Round 2


4 Normandy
5 Email
6 Enemies
7 Mission Summary
8 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Freedom's Progress (mission)

This recruitment mission is acquired automatically after the mission on Freedom's Progress.




Dr. Mordin Solus

- Biological weapons expert
- Light weapons training with Salarian Special Tasks Group


Dr. Mordin Solus is a salarian biological weapons expert whose technology may hold the key to countering Collector attacks. He is currently operating a medical clinic in the slums of Omega.


Preparation[]
Because it unlocks the Normandy's tech lab on the CIC deck, it makes considerable sense for you to undertake this recruitment mission first. Prior to completing this mission you will be unable to utilize the valuable tech upgrades you find in any of the others. A counterargument for doing this later would be seeing the reactions of your nonhuman squadmates to a plague that doesn't affect humans, or those of your other human squadmates besides Miranda and Jacob. 
As you will encounter numerous krogan and vorcha enemies in this mission, consider how best to arrest their health regeneration abilities: Incinerate, Incendiary Ammo, and Warp are some of the classic candidates. The Squad Incendiary Ammo evolution will come in particularly handy, making it very difficult for enemies to regenerate. If you're not playing Soldier or Vanguard, Jacob has this power available if he has reached sufficient level.
If you have Stasis as your Advanced Training power it will stop a krogan or flamethrower-toting Pyro in its tracks at any range, a very useful "emergency" power for this mission as there are plenty of both and encountering them at close range can otherwise be deadly. Also note that on higher difficulties, standard vorcha troopers possess armor bars that they can spontaneously regenerate often in combat if not killed outright, so focus them down to deny them the opportunity; the Flashbang Grenade power can also suppress their ability to "regrow" their armor for quite some time.
Tip: If you're starting a new game you may want to think carefully from the beginning about what order you want to do things because it will affect what level you are during important later events. See the main game walkthrough page for more information.

Walkthrough[]
Arrival on Omega[]

When Shepard arrives on Omega, EDI cautions that the section housing Mordin's clinic is quarantined due to a plague outbreak, and that gaining access may be difficult. While she advises visiting Afterlife to get more information, it is possible to head directly to the quarantined area near the apartments and start the mission. If you choose to stop by the club, you need not proceed there immediately if you wish to explore, since there are several minor assignments available in the area, as well as a few merchants.
At Afterlife, the bouncers wave you through immediately, while a human is fruitlessly antagonizing the elcor bouncer about the long wait. In the entrance hall you can earn some morality points depending on your dealing with some batarian thugs. Once inside the main bar, you can head to the back and up the stairs to the platform where Aria T'Loak, the de facto ruler of Omega, sits watching over her domain. You can ask her about anything to do with Omega, but be sure to eventually ask about Mordin and Archangel. Once you get the information, you can excuse yourself from the club. Eventually make your way to the turian guarding the shuttle dock to the quarantine sector.

Into The Plague[]

Before speaking with the turian, you may wish to save in case you do not have enough morality points to get past him without having to shoot up the place. As you approach, a human woman is incensed at the turian, as she is not being allowed back into the slums to protect her possessions from looters. 
Asking about the plague reveals that it affects everyone but humans and the vorcha. You can use the morality options to get the guard to call ahead and tell the other guards to stand down. Alternatively, if you want a firefight, then use the right dialogue options. If you get past the turian using diplomacy, the human woman will exasperatedly ask why she can't also be let in, and the turian will point out she is distinctly lacking a grenade launcher.

The Slums of Omega[]
Upon entering the slums and depending on your options with the turian guard, either you will be shot at or the guards will stand down. Either way, first move straight across to retrieve the crate of 250 refined eezo. Then go back a little, turn toward and go around the barrier; be sure to pick up the medi-gel on your way. Open the only door and go down the stairs where you'll confront a couple of Blue Suns mercs, and be prepared for some grizzly conversation from your squadmates. From where you enter run across to get access to a terminal with 5,000 credits; there are power cells in the nearby room, in which you can bypass a door to get access to 4 audio logs describing how some turians were sealed in by the local Blue Suns mercs to prevent the spread of the plague. The logs describe their final, tragic days.


Go back out and to the batarian victim on the ground. He is not happy to see humans since humans are not affected by the plague, from which fact he has convinced himself that humans are the cause of the plague. Ask him some questions and eventually he will go into a coughing fit, whereupon a Paragon interrupt will use one of your medi-gel to help him (+5 Paragon points). An additional 2 Paragon points can be earned after the Paragon interrupt by saying, "I'm here to help," or 2 Renegade points can be earned by saying "I need information" or by simply ignoring the interrupt and letting him die. He does indeed have a lot more information he can give you, so if you save him you can ask about the professor, particularly his rather unorthodox methods and skill with weapons. Apparently the Blue Suns pressed him for protection money, and he popped them all before they could even respond. When you get to the clinic, ask Mordin to send someone to escort him back to the clinic as this will net you some experience points. There is no journal entry associated with this, however.


Moving past the now healthier or dead batarian, bypass the nearby door and go down to discover another batarian; unfortunately there is nothing you can do for this one. Access his logs to find out what happened to him, and you can loot his wall safe for a sum of 4,000 credits. Go back upstairs through the door, head to the right, and you enter the beginning of what is apparently called Kokomo Plaza, where you will soon come under fire from several Blue Suns mercs. You can fight them from the first floor, or you can run up the stairs (on the left) and take them out from the height of the second floor. If you're an Engineer, be sure to send your Combat Drone over early, as it will prevent the appearance of more enemies, shortening the fight significantly. If you're feeling particularly aggressive, running quickly around the right side and then forward will get you to a position flanking the enemies at point blank range—which also prevents the spawning of any more enemies and lets you overload the many explosive containers just behind them.
After taking them out, if you did not go to the second floor, retrieve the medi-gel and spare parts (1,000 credits) located there. On the opposite side of the plaza from where you entered, to the right of the barricade, bypass a door and enter the apartment of two human refugees. They tell you about how the Blue Suns, even though corrupt, still ran a tight ship and had reasonable rates, at least for Omega. You can persuade them by using moral speech that staying in their apartment is not the best idea, but they will not come with you. They say if you can clear a way to Mordin's clinic, then they may take their chances and go to the clinic. Any way you decide to take the conversation don't forget to access the safe for 4,000 credits; there is also a medical kit on their kitchen table.


Go behind the main barricade of the plaza (where you destroyed the Blue Suns) and scan the dead merc for an assault rifle upgrade. It is recommended that you save the game at this point: the next area is hard, especially on higher difficulty levels. Go down the stairs and through a door, entering the remainder of Kokomo Plaza, and you start hearing gunfire. Apparently the Blood Pack is moving in on Blue Suns territory. Using the ongoing battle as a distraction, backtrack and go up the stairs. Position your squad quickly because the Blue Sun mercs won't last very long, and then the pack will turn on you (note that the Blue Suns can also attack you). Use your elevated position for an advantage, and have someone guarding the stairs. The vorcha will stay at a distance, but the Blood Pack's varren and krogan will not stay away but rather will charge up the stairs. Destroy the Blood Pack, watch for the Pyros, and then move down the stairs.
Combat Tips: Manually ordering your squad up the stairs will prevent them from knocking out the Blue Suns too soon, which will in turn make your early battle with the Blood Pack easier—varren are easier to pick off when they're trying to eat somebody else. The two Pyros hiding behind the central pillar can be safely sniped early on from upstairs if you move to the far left and right ends of the window and shoot their flame tanks. The two krogan usually appear one at a time in the middle of the battle, and you should concentrate fire and powers from your whole squad when they do show up.
Warning:  Attempting to use an Infiltrator's Tactical Cloak to "dash past" into the room with the looters will result in an awkward surprise: when you return the Blood Pack will be heavily reinforced with as many as four Pyros. Although it is possible to evade them and reach Mordin's Lab without fighting anything, it's a low-odds proposition and tends to take longer than just fighting everything.
On the left side of the large room is another room that links to an apartment. In the other room grab the container of eezo, then head inside the apartment proper. The apartment has some unwanted tenants: human looters. You can let them go, or shoot them. Either way ask them questions first. They will fill you in on what happened and how the plague spread. Once done asking your questions, make your decision on the looters, and then leave. Head back out and down the stairs, following the signs to the clinic.

Mordin's Clinic[]

Outside the clinic there is a detachment of human and mech guards. The guards if questioned tell you not to make any trouble unless you want to deal with the mechs and the professor himself. Head in and question as many people as you can; although there is no actual conversation, they tell stories of how the professor seems to be helping them and how he defended the clinic from a few attacks, and so forth. Head down the back hall and head to the left first, pick up two crates, some medi-gel and access a computer for a research item: the crates contain palladium and platinum, the research increases your medi-gel capacity after the mission. Once done in here go into the other room and before talking to Mordin pick up the medi-gel, power cells, and more resources: this time the other two, iridium and eezo. Once the items are acquired, talk to Mordin.
Aria was right: Mordin likes to talk, and fast—he reasons quickly and out loud. This habit may prompt Shepard to perform the occasional interrupt (a Renegade or Paragon one here, and another Paragon one after the mission on the Normandy) to forestall any unnecessary rambling. Mordin is friendly, however, which is a change of pace for this district. As the Illusive Man stated, he is also brilliant: he not only easily deduces you are with Cerberus (if you don't tell him up front), but he has apparently already found a cure for the plague and needs only to distribute it. You invite Mordin to join your mission to stop the Collectors, but he declines for the moment because he wants to cure the plague first. He plans to spread the cure via the ventilation system, though there is a catch: the air-control facility is guarded by Blood Pack vorcha. 


Just as Mordin finishes, said air flow system shuts down, adding the threat of suffocation to the problems you already had. Shepard volunteers to deal with the vorcha and reactivate the air flow fans, simultaneously distributing the cure to the entire district. On the plus side, Mordin, eager for a new challenge, promises to join your team if you are successful. You can ask a few more questions, and also ask that Mordin send someone for the sick batarian you met (if you didn't allow him to die). To help you in your upcoming fight, Mordin gifts you a new gun, the M-6 Carnifex Hand Cannon, but he will also ask a favor: to keep an eye out for his assistant Daniel, who went into vorcha territory alone to find some batarians to give them the cure; Mordin would like you to rescue him and bring him back alive.

To Environmental Control[]
Tip: There is a Weapons Locker in the clinic that you can use on your way out to change any of your team's weapons to fit your preference. Note that all party members including Shepard that carry heavy pistols are now equipped with the Carnifex. If you're new to a certain weapon type and want to test anything out before leaving the clinic, you can: leave out the exit door but don't go too far. Once you get just far enough outside to unholster your weapons again, stop, and you can fire your guns as much as you want to get a feel for them without getting locked out of the clinic. Then just head back inside, hit the locker again, and all of your non-heavy weapon ammo will be fully refilled.


This is a good save point. Once you're ready (there is one more medi-gel next to the clinic exit), go out of the clinic, up the stairs, and be ready for a fight. Get into cover and use it to take out the attacking Blood Pack: a single Blood Pack Pyro, and a lot of Blood Pack Troopers initially. If you go in first then you have a chance to catch them off guard and take out one of them. Using a sniper rifle to target the flame tank on the nearby Pyro makes the most dramatic entrance. Try not to let the vorcha get in cover, because their regeneration will allow them to completely regenerate their health. If your squad has Incinerate or Warp, then they can be applied to a vorcha (once its armor has been stripped) to permanently prevent regeneration. Be mindful of explosive containers strewn about the place, shoot at them whenever enemies draw near.
Later, two Blood Pack Warriors eventually emerge, one from the green door in the far side of the room and another from the emergency exit stairs, and will charge you while the vorcha stay put. In addition, this area sometimes has a little "glitch" (one might call it a tactic) insofar as Pack members will sometimes not move and stay out of your line of sight, requiring you to go hunting for the Pack. 


Camping Strategy: After the entering the door from the clinic and the loading screen ends, order your squad members to stay put at the bottom of the stairs. As mentioned above, snipe and use powers to kill the Pyro quickly then run back down the stairs. From this point on, the rest of the battle is poking your head out around the archway to snipe or use powers on the remaining enemies. The krogan and vorcha that appear will get stuck in a pattern of running next to the left side of archway, out into the middle of the room, then the right side of the room. If you stay low on the stairs, pop out and chip away at the enemies, they will eventually all die. They won't come down the stairs after you if you stay glued to the bottom of the stairs. This will also give you time to recharge your shields. You may have to go out into the room to get a vorcha or two that hunker down and won't come out but the rest is playing the long and slow patient game. Once you have killed off all of the bad guys, a second pyro will show up from the left side of the screen with a few other vorcha. Take the Pyro down quickly then repeat the same run and hide strategy. This strategy makes the battle much easier as you can take your time and use whichever weapons and powers you want to finish this battle without wasting ammo or getting killed quickly on Insanity difficulty by a room full of enemies.


When you've cleared out the initial wave and the krogan wave, be wary of proceeding up the emergency exit stairs as there is a final wave of reinforcements: a bunch of vorcha troopers, a pyro, and a last Blood Pack Warrior. Fortunately all of them are funneled into the stairs and you won't have to worry about flanking until they get down.
Once they are all eliminated look around for a gambling terminal by the side of the emergency exit stairs, which can be hacked for 3,000 credits, and a medical station on the other side for another medi-gel.


After stocking up, move and go up the emergency exit stairs; hack the bank terminal for 5,000 credits. Go up the next flights of stairs where you find a short hallway with two doors. The door on the right advances the mission, but the door on the left has some upset batarians and Daniel. See Omega: The Professor: Missing Assistant for resolving this assignment, and save before opening the door as there are multiple possible outcomes here.
Once the decision is made, leave the room and open the other door at the end of the hall. The next room has three Blood Pack Troopers. Apparently the Pack has moved closer to the clinic than Mordin realized, and they have taken a lot more territory than originally thought. In any case, fight through the Blood Pack as you come across them, head down some stairs, and move on until you reach a very large room where there is no ceiling.


This room – apparently the entrance to the District Environment Control facility – has three interior staircases, all leading to various parts of the lower level. Meanwhile, where those large fans are across the way from you, Vorcha Heavies will appear and begin shooting rockets. If you shoot them down, they're replaced by Blood Pack Boom-Squads. You now have a choice between different approaches—which will affect the mix of enemies you are faced with:
Staying Upstairs: Option 1 is to stay upstairs at least until all the rocket vorcha are taken out. Up to six of them will spawn, but since the vorcha down below will not try to come upstairs with you, you can eventually get rid of all the rocket launchers. There are explosive canisters near the rocketeers so always target them when there's opportunity. After the first Heavy, the remainder may not fire at all if you are far enough away. Once you've eliminated all the upstairs enemies, you can use the balcony to pick off the vorcha down below from relative safety. If you fight the whole battle upstairs, only regular Blood Pack Troopers will spawn down below. If you head downstairs while enemies are still spawning, Blood Pack Warriors and and Blood Pack Pyros will also spawn.


Rushing Downstairs: Option 2 is to head downstairs immediately via the staircase to your immediate left. When you get to the bottom, rush forward as quickly as you can along the far left side of the room. This will take you underneath the far balcony where the rocket launchers can no longer fire on you, and there is plenty of cover in that corner from which to engage the enemy forces on the ground. If you go this route you avoid the battle with the rocketeers entirely, but krogan and Pyro vorcha will spawn in addition to the standard vorcha and will advance upon your position. This option can be particularly effective if Shepard is an Engineer, because spawning a drone anywhere near the exit door will stop the further spawn of enemies. There is sparse cover if going this route, but you can take refuge behind several pillars and the short end of a barricade.
Bearing all that in mind, choose the type of battle you want and take out the remaining Blood Pack. If you wish to save here, make sure to go in past the doors and inside (you may have to eliminate the rocketeers above to clear the area for saving if you ignored them earlier). If you don't, then when you reload you will have to fight all over again. 
Moving inside you will soon confront a few more hostiles in a small room: a couple of pistol-packing Blood Pack Troopers and a single Blood Pack Warrior (beware the krogan). On the right you can find some spare parts (1,000 credits) and some medi-gel. The gel is valuable because the upcoming fight is a hard one. As you go up the stairs one of your squadmates reminds you how to disperse the cure. Before opening the next door, save (Note:  This is one of the last saving points for the mission for both manual and autosave).

Environmental Control[]

When you enter you encounter an unusually talkative vorcha, who makes clear that he and his accomplices are in league with the Collectors. Whatever your responses to this guy, there's no standing down and a fight must proceed. You'll face a Pyro, a Boom-Squad, a Heavy, and a rifle-toting Trooper. Get in cover quickly in the small barricade in front of you or the rails off on either side to avoid being shredded by gunfire or rockets to the face, then mow them down as per standard procedure.
Once the vorcha are down, EDI will come over your comm and tell you where to start the ventilation process by inserting the cure, but you need to start the main system and inject the cure before continuing. Note:  You can actually sequence-break by rushing to the back of the room and inserting the cure while there are still enemies about, but this will deprive you of breathing room against the incoming onslaught and is therefore not recommended.
As soon as you activate the main system by inserting the cure, vorcha and krogan will stream in from the general direction whence you entered. Vorcha Heavies will also appear on the catwalk across from your position (above your original entrance). Usually you can take out the Heavies across the way first and let your squad deal with the Pack members streaming in. Alternatively, if you clear the ground and advance on their position, you can approach closely enough that you are outside of their firing angle. If you are far enough away, they might not fire at all.


You must now turn the two fans on, one on each side, so after you've taken out the Heavies and other threats, pick the ventilation-control room to attack first. Each of two ventilation-control rooms, where the fans are activated, flank the main system on either side, but on a slightly lower level. No matter which side you want to do first, the process is the same, but you have several strategies available:
Conventional Approach: Move downstairs toward a control room and quickly put your squad in cover; the control-room door will open on its own as several Blood Pack members will pour out. There will be lots of Pyros, so don't let them get close. Shooting their flame tanks can make them explode and damage their friends. Likewise an Incinerate or Overload applied to a Pyro from which the armor has been stripped will instantly create a helpful explosion.


Once you put them down, move into the control room and activate the fans for that side (be aware that there's a medical station in each control room). Once the fan is activated, go back out of the room and take cover behind one of the nearest pillars—more enemies usually confront you here. Don't try to advance back up the stairs until the enemies stop coming to you, as the other side will already be teaming with Blood Pack and multiple Heavies will have mounted the upper catwalks across from you. Approach the stairs carefully, because a krogan sometimes charges down them at this point, and a Pyro often spawns here as well. Keep both at a safe distance and avoid coming up the stairs into target range of the Heavies before you've dealt with them.
Now move up the stairs and take cover from the barrage of rockets which will be fired at you from the opposite balcony. Note that the first fans clearly cause strong winds; with well-used powers (such as Pull, Throw, or Shockwave), the squad can knock enemies off their feet, who will then catch the wind and be blown around. This tactic is particularly useful for getting rid of the Heavies on the catwalks, who can literally be blown away. In any event, once you can head down to the remaining control room, the door opens again revealing even more enemies. Once they are all down move in and activate the fans (but not before claiming the medigel). Your squad will say some things but you are quickly transported back to the clinic.


Use the Terrain: When proceeding from the first control room to the second, it is possible to use the terrain to avoid having to fight the rocket-launching Boom-Squads at all. Once you've turned the fan on and fought your way through the wave of troops that spawns—taking care to make sure you've cleared any krogan and Pyro from the staircase area—run quickly across to the other side of the room, dashing under the balcony the heavies are on, which will prevent the rocket troops from being able to fire on you. In this scenario you now only need fight whatever troops spawn from the second control room, and those are likely to be relatively sparse. Once you turn on the second fan, the rest of the vorcha give up in frustration.
Game the Spawn Points: One can also game the enemy spawn points to prevent the spawning of any more heavies. The key to this strategy is clearing both the left and right wings before turning either fan on, which prevents the second, larger, spawn of rocket-firing heavies. For this strategy one can proceed otherwise-as-normal, clearing each side wing with your squad, but not turning any fans on until both wings are cleared—there will still be a final spawn of vorcha and krogan on the middle platform after the first fan is turned on, but no heavies. 


Super Methodical: Or, to take things even more slowly, remain on the main central level for as long as possible. Once you have cleared out all of the enemies on the main level you are on, you will be able to see both the left and right fan ventilation room paths on the lower levels. Don't go down onto the lower levels yet! Place your squadmates into cover on either the right or left side on the higher level so that you can see a fan ventilation room door down below. Get as close to that door on the higher level as you can. (Whichever fan ventilation room on the lower level you want to clear out first, it doesn't matter which one. Stick to finishing one side until you've cleared it out). Take Shepard and go slowly down onto the lower level you have picked. Move forward towards the fan ventilation room door. As soon as you see it open, run back up to the higher level where your squadmates are located at and snipe or use powers to kill the 2 vorcha and 1 Pyro that came out of the door. If your squadmates are in cover far enough forward on the higher level, and in view of the door on the lower level, the enemies will stay in cover on the lower level and you can kill them easily. 
Once the enemies on the lower level die, put your squadmates back into cover (if they have come out of cover), go back down to the same lower level fan ventilation room door, and repeat the process again of drawing out the enemies, running back up to the higher level, and killing the bad guys. You will know the process is complete when no new enemies spawn when you approach the fan ventilation room.
Reposition your squadmates to the opposite side of the higher platform once you have cleared one of the side areas leading to the fan ventilation rooms on the lower level. Repeat the same process this time on the opposite side by having Shepard run down to the lower level, draw out enemies, run back up to cover, kill them, and repeat until they are all dead. You will know you are done when nothing spawns when you approach either fan ventilation room. This strategy greatly reduces the amount of enemies you have to fight next when you turn on the fans and you can do this slowly and carefully without wasting ammo. The enemies seem less likely to show up in hordes if you clear both sides first. The rocket-launching Boom-Squads on the balcony don't spawn in this variant.


Save your game before you turn on the first fan (if it will let you do so). Before you pick a side to turn the fan on, get your squadmates into cover in the fan room on the sides of the doorway as enemies will spawn outside on the lower level when you turn on the fan. Some enemies will stay in cover, some will charge you depending upon how far forward you move on the lower level. If you get the enemies out of cover, run back to the fan room and use your squadmates for help. Be patient! If you take your time, you can draw out and kill everything. Focus on krogan or Pyros when they show up as they will close quickly and kill you fast. Normal vorcha are annoying but they tend to stay put in cover usually unless you flush them out by getting close to them. Clear everything out and then move over to the other fan room lower level. Take your time and watch your radar for hidden enemies. Make sure you get any medi-gel or ammo you want before you start the second fan because it goes straight to the clinic when you activate fan two.

Mordin's Clinic Round 2[]
Once back in the clinic Mordin tells you that the plague levels are dropping throughout the district. He says that he is satisfied and ready to join your team; he mentions working with Cerberus and how unexpected it is that they are working with aliens. You can now head back to the Normandy or stay in the clinic. Stay if you want to get any of the things mentioned earlier, but you can also see and talk to several of the people you encountered earlier, if you saved them (the sick batarian and Daniel) or convinced them to go to the clinic (the human refugees). You can talk to many patients and employees for their new perspectives. When you are done, return to the Normandy.

Normandy[]
Mordin arrives ready to work. Jacob is there with the two of you and he brings the professor up to speed on the Collector situation; Mordin needs only a well-equipped lab, at which point EDI chimes in. After these interactions, you have access to the tech lab where you are able to research upgrades for the Normandy, for your squad, and for yourself.
Now is a good time to start going around and asking about upgrades. Start with Miranda because her upgrade makes planet scanning a whole lot easier, and much faster.

Email[]
If he survives, Daniel (from the Omega clinic) sends Commander Shepard an email with the header Things are quiet again, regarding the state of the clinic since Mordin joined Shepard.




From: Omega Clinic Desk

Commander, I wanted to thank you again for saving me from those batarians. I thought I'd seen the worst of people's anger and fear at Dr. Solus' clinic. I had no idea how much anger his work was keeping in check, how bad it really was. If not for you, I'd be dead. Thank you.

The clinic is doing well. You got rid of most of the plague, and I've been able to handle the rest without too much trouble. The Blue Suns keep offering to take over security here. I keep the mechs powered on. I won't make the same mistake twice.

Thanks,


- Daniel


Enemies[]
Blood Pack Boom-Squad
Blood Pack Pyro
Blood Pack Trooper
Blood Pack Warrior
Blue Suns Trooper
District Guard (Optional)
Human Looter (Optional)
Varren
Mission Summary[]
Recruited Dr. Mordin Solus for the team. Examination of Omega plague cure confirms Dr. Solus's expertise. Can also use work on Omega as leverage against Aria if necessary.

Experience: 1,000 (1250)
Credits: 50,000
Cerberus Funding: 25,000
Credits found: 23,000 (+2,000 by getting the datapad if you let the first plagued batarian die)
Weapons:
M-6 Carnifex Hand Cannon
Resources
Element Zero: 1,000
Palladium: 2,000
Platinum: 2,000
Iridium: 2,000
Upgrades
Medi-Gel Capacity (Microscanner)
Assault Rifle Damage (Kinetic Pulsar)
Trivia[]
The turian guarding the entrance to the quarantine zone will reference Shepard carrying a "grenade launcher" even if the player does not currently have the M-100 Grenade Launcher equipped.
Despite their non-human physiology, bringing Garrus or Grunt into the area has no lasting impact on their health, although it does give extra dialogue and an extra scene when you first meet Mordin.
When rescuing Daniel, the batarian holding him at gunpoint is wearing a Purgatory prisoner jumpsuit.
In a conversation with looters in a turian's apartment, Shepard can say, "Stealing from the dead. That's pretty low." This might be BioWare's staff making fun of themselves: as a prominent maker of RPG games, BioWare most certainly opens ample opportunities for the Player Characters to loot from the dead. In fact, looting is one of the biggest attractions for RPG fans.



