



The Remnant Abyss is an underground facility by the eponymous machines on Havarl, north of the Central Wilds. Small compared to a vault, it nonetheless has multiple artifacts worth taking from the Remnant bots guarding them.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




A descendant of Zorai, an angara who can exert some control over the Remnant by means of a gauntlet heirloom, ventured into the Abyss with the device and lost their life there. Their badly decomposed remains along with the gauntlet can be found by Pathfinder Ryder upon direction from First Sage Esmus.
A group of scavengers also trekked into the Abyss searching for rem-tech and intending to clean out the site before Ryder can get there. Instead they only found their deaths battling too many machines. A survivor, Rylie, holed up in a small chamber and can be found there by Ryder. She gives the Pathfinder a discovered rem-tech piece that Peebee needs for her project.

Layout[]
The gravity well chamber is composed of a front door, a scannable Remnant tech, and a hidden small container behind the platform. From there connecting the place to topside, the Remnant Abyss splits off into northeast and southwest passageways that eventually converge. Both paths are initially sealed and console interfacing only opens up the southwest path. The console also opens a view to the convergence chamber, but an energy barrier blocks the view and the way.
The convergence chamber is cavernous, a raised platform surrounded by a ferrofluid reservoir. It is one of the known places defended by a Destroyer on standby. A console there raises a bridge into a small chamber containing loot, scannable Remnant tech, and Rylie (if presently on the hunt for rem-tech).
The northeast passage ends at a chamber with a tall column with two large containers of loot on top of it. Console interfacing is required to extend ledges for reaching them, and to open the door back to the gravity well. The chamber with Zorai's heirloom is blocked off by the northeast wall, inaccessible unless Esmus has revealed the Zorai story to Ryder.

Missions[]



Allies and Relationships
Peebee: Remnant Scanner


Heleus Assignments
A Dying Planet

Ancient Data Drive[]



Corrupted Data Drive
Note: The drive is old, has been exposed to the elements, and most of the data is corrupted. However, small packets have been recovered and translated from Shelesh. The data appears to be a series of journal entries.

"…stories told by grandfather, of how the gauntlet came to him. It should've been his sister's to hold. She was the oldest of all their siblings, direct descendants of Zorai. But she had no interest in the stories of the ancestors or the Remnant. She refused her right, and it passed to grandfather, then my father… and now it's mine."

"I barely understand it, and it's frightening. I visited the sages. They said Zorai knew how to speak to Remnant, and maybe this gauntlet helped, somehow. When I put it on it… it seems to change something, in my mind. I don't like the way it feels."


"…Iraan wants it. The gauntlet. She says my fear of it makes me unworthy. I should pass it to her, like our grand-aunt passed it to our grandfather. I do not fear it. I will show her. I'll use it on the Remnant, like my ancestor did."





