


See also: Mass Effect Wiki:Administrators
Contents

1 Instructions

1.1 Making a request
1.2 Basic qualifications
1.3 Supporting a request


2 Requests

2.1 Support




Instructions

Requests for Adminship Archives






LordDeathRay
Elseweyr
Cattlesquat
DeldiRe


Making a request
To submit a request, make a post under the Requests header. Please sign your name at the end of your request with four tildes (~). This will tell us who posted it and when to allow for a more easily processed request. State why you would like to become an administrator and what you have done here that you think helped the wiki. If there is anything else you want to say, please don't be afraid to add it. Good luck!
Please note that a request is not a guarantee. All requests will be taken seriously, and will be weighed on their merits. Factors such as number and content of edits, frequency of activity, and adherence to site policies will be considered, as will many others. The final decision rests with the site administrators, and must be unanimous. If the administrators concur, a request will be granted. If there is opposition, it will be denied. Either way, an admin will inform you of the results.

Basic qualifications
Before posting a request, you can check whether you meet the basic qualifications that admins will look for when evaluating you:

Are you a Senior Editor (a user who has been granted Rollbacker status)?
Do you have at least 1000 mainspace article edits at Mass Effect Wiki, and do mainspace article edits form at least 50% of your edit total?
Check using the edit counter tool, mainspace edits are located in the first row beneath your total edit count.
Is your account at Mass Effect Wiki at least 18 months old?
Check your personal Contributions page.
Have you contributed to Mass Effect Wiki on a frequent and regular basis?
Check your personal Contributions page.
Note that these are only flexible guidelines for examining admin candidates, not absolute requirements, and they are not the sole factors we consider. If you can answer yes to each of these questions, it means we're more likely to be familiar with you and have an understanding of how experienced you are as an editor, as well as how prepared you may be to take on the greater responsibilities of adminship.

Supporting a request
If you wish to support or oppose an active request, leave a message under the Support header. The Requests section is reserved for the request alone, to keep things tidy in case there is a need for elaboration or clarification.

Requests
Despite having contributed a fair amount to the Wiki at this point, becoming an Admin was never an urgent priority of mine as long as someone else had it covered. However, due to a lack of active regular users right now, I think the time has come for me to step up. I've basically been acting the part for a while now in terms of engaging with newer users, enforcing guidelines, moderating the Discord (and now the Community Forums), and reviewing edits. I think Cattlesquat might also appreciate having someone else around who can deal with any vandalism that crops up. I fully admit my know-how on the technical side of the Wiki isn't high, but I'm willing to learn anything I need to for performing necessary tasks. Neo89515 (talk) 17:41, 15 January 2023 (UTC)

Support
I don't know if my opinion matters at all, but I want to say that I fully support this idea and agree with the reasons behind it. And I had thought Neo worthy of a higher rank a long time before this request.--Loadingue (talk) 18:53, 15 January 2023 (UTC)




