



Mass Effect: Revelation is a prequel novel to the Mass Effect trilogy, by Canadian science fiction writer and lead writer of the Mass Effect video game, Drew Karpyshyn. First published in May 1, 2007 by Del Rey Books, it is the first novel set in the Mass Effect universe.
The book serves to fill in much of the background details of the game, such as locations (including the Citadel), the internal politics of the Council races, and some of the science involved, as well as introducing characters such as David Anderson. A considerable amount of the plot revolves around the galaxy's views on artificial intelligence, as this is a major plot point in the game. It also sets up the game's main villain, Saren Arterius, and how he came to be involved in the events sparked by Sidon.
The book is featured in Mass Effect 2 as a purchasable souvenir at the Zakera Cafe. The book's description in-game says that it is a military history novel detailing Saren's early missions before the events of Mass Effect.

Contents

1 Jacket Copy
2 Story
3 Trivia
4 References


Jacket Copy[]

Every advanced society in the galaxy relies on the technology of the Protheans, an ancient species that vanished fifty thousand years ago. After discovering a cache of Prothean technology on Mars in 2148, humanity is spreading to the stars; the newest interstellar species, struggling to carve out its place in the greater galactic community.
On the edge of colonized space, ship commander and Alliance war hero David Anderson investigates the remains of a top secret military research station; smoking ruins littered with bodies and unanswered questions. Who attacked this post and for what purpose? And where is Kahlee Sanders, the young scientist who mysteriously vanished from the base–hours before her colleagues were slaughtered?
Sanders is now the prime suspect, but finding her creates more problems for Anderson than it solves. Partnered with a rogue alien agent he can't trust and pursued by an assassin he can't escape, Anderson battles impossible odds on uncharted worlds to uncover a sinister conspiracy . . . one he won't live to tell about. Or so the enemy thinks.

Story[]
See the Storyline for plot details.

Trivia[]
The "Revelation Novel" available to buy from the Zakera Cafe, in Mass Effect 2, is an in-game version of this book, making reference to the events and author.  However, the codex entry incorrectly identifies the destroyed science facility as Shanxi (location of the First Contact War), rather than Sidon.
References[]
Bioware - This page includes downloadable sections of the book: Prologue and Chapter 9.
ISBN-13: 978-0345498168


Mass Effect Series


Games

Mass Effect (CE, ♫) • Mass Effect 2 (CE, ♫) • Mass Effect 3 (CE, ♫, Multiplayer) • Trilogy • Mass Effect Legendary EditionMass Effect: Andromeda (DE, ♫, Multiplayer)


Mobile Games and Apps

Mass Effect Galaxy • Mass Effect: Infiltrator • Mass Effect 3: Datapad • Mass Effect: Andromeda APEX HQ


Downloadable Content

Mass Effect • Mass Effect 2 • Mass Effect 3


Books

Revelation •  Ascension • Retribution • Deception • Nexus Uprising • Initiation • Annihilation


Comics

Redemption •  Evolution • Invasion • Homeworlds • Foundation • Incursion • InquisitionConviction • Blasto: Eternity is Forever • He Who Laughs Best • Library Edition • Discovery


Films

Paragon Lost (♫) • Mass Effect





