









Rjoek
Historian

Race
Angara


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Rjoek is an angara interested in historical artifacts who can be found on Techiix.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Behind some Resistance cruisers in Techiix's hangar Rjoek is amazed at a human who dared venture all the way there. Introducing himself as a historian, he wants to enlist Pathfinder Ryder's help: Eroesk was a daar that had been destroyed by the kett, but it still contained a map of ancient Voeld that is considered a priceless artifact. He sent two colleagues there to retrieve the map, but they're having trouble getting out due to repeated kett attacks. He hands over the Eroesk navpoint to the Pathfinder if they agree to help, imploring them to hurry.
However, things are not as they seem. Following Ryder's assistance repelling the kett, Rjoek's turian colleague Astra claims he lied, because she, Rjoek, and her companion Korvis are actually smugglers from Kadara. Looking for valuable loot, they flew to Voeld upon hearing the kett have been destroying villages. She had a change of heart after seeing the devastation firsthand, and she wants the Pathfinder to give the map to the Resistance instead where it could do some good. She tells Ryder Rjoek isn't a bad person, just one with bad ideas.
If Ryder confronts Rjoek with this knowledge before turning over the map to the Resistance, he realizes it was Astra who sold him out, deeming her too soft for their chosen line of work. He claims in his talks with Eroesk's survivors he himself has become unsure if he still would have sold the map to the highest bidder, so he lets Ryder decide his fate. 
If Ryder lets him go without issue, he tells them to consider him gone. If Jaal Ama Darav is around, he can order Rjoek to enlist with the Resistance, finding value in Rjoek's scavenging and stealthy piloting skills. If Jaal isn't around, Ryder can tell Rjoek to report to Techiix's governor for his punishment.
Whichever his fate, Rjoek regrets asking the Pathfinder for help. He's gone from Techiix on the next visit there regardless of whether he was confronted or not after the map has been handed to Intelligence Officer Davja Kaas. Unlike other angara who can be persuaded by Jaal to join the Resistance, Rjoek doesn't appear in the Angaran Resistance Base.




