


The Roekaar is a faction of angara active in the Andromeda Galaxy. More ruthless and xenophobic than the mainstream Angaran Resistance, the Roekaar intend to drive all alien invaders, kett and Milky Way alike, out of the Heleus Cluster. 
Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect: Andromeda

2.1 Serial Killings
2.2 Biological Warfare
2.3 Propaganda Distribution
2.4 Kidnapping
2.5 Open Hostilities

2.5.1 False Flag




3 Resources

3.1 Key Members
3.2 Troop Varieties









“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
See also: Codex (Mass Effect: Andromeda)/Andromeda Species#Angara: The Roekaar
The Roekaar were founded by Akksul, a charismatic angara who once studied under Moshae Sjefa. After his year-long imprisonment in a forced-labor kett camp, Akksul was embittered against the Resistance and alien life. He recruited young angara and disaffected Resistance members into an independent force named after fearsome soldiers from angaran mythology: the Roekaar.    
The arrival of the Nexus provoked the Roekaar past breaking point and they are now engaged in full-fledged guerilla operations against all non-angaran inhabitants of the cluster. The Resistance officially disavows the Roekaar, but there is no organized opposition to them, as family ties and political connections further complicate the Roekaar's relationship with angaran society at large.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
The Roekaar are involved in multiple plots that can be dealt with by Pathfinder Ryder.

Serial Killings[]
A Roekaar cell led by Farah Noskos set up shop on Kadara with the aim of looking for recruits. They established a training ground within a cave in Draullir. However, they began committing serial killings against the local Milky Way species living on the planet as well as angara who support the new residents. 
If Ryder helps Reyes Vidal investigate the murders, the Roekaar cell is eliminated. 

Biological Warfare[]
Another Roekaar cell leader on Kadara captured Ruth Bekker, a human afflicted with a cross-species disease, TH-314, which he discovered that angara were immune to. The Roekaar proceeded to experiment on Bekker and attempted to obtain more carriers to spread the disease to all aliens, though Bekker tried to commit suicide to stop them. If Ryder tracks Bekker down, upon confronting the Roekaar leader, either has the choice of letting him leave with a virus sample or stopping him; SAM notes that the sample was badly degraded and thus would be unusable.
On Havarl, a Roekaar cell became interested in the destructive mutations on the world's biota and began studying them, believing they could create a weapon to apply to other worlds in Heleus that would kill off kett and Initiative. Ryder can stumble onto their plan while researching mutated wildlife. Tracking down the Roekaar camp, Ryder erases all their research.

Propaganda Distribution[]
A Roekaar member on Havarl created five manifestos based on her experiences and scattered them far and wide. Ryder can find them in unexpected places and learn what goes on in the mind of a true Roekaar believer.

Kidnapping[]
The Roekaar want to find Dr. Zoe Jean Kennedy for her knowledge of ZK Tracker satellites which can be used to gain backdoor access to Initiative systems. Her being pregnant is an additional boon, making her a symbolic alien target.
The Roekaar pursue their quarry to Voeld, arriving at the same time as a kett squad, thought both parties can be neutralized by Ryder.

Open Hostilities[]
The Roekaar assault the Andromeda Initiative's Prodromos outpost on Eos to provoke the Nexus into retaliating. However, Ryder is able to intercept the landing beacon and moved it to Site One and Two, where they eliminate the Roekaar strike teams, which served to enrage Akksul.

False Flag[]
Following the failure of the Eos attack, Akksul later plans a major operation on Havarl involving banishing angara scientists from the Forge and intending to destroy it with stolen Initiative explosives to frame the Initiative. When Ryder and Jaal Ama Darav disarm the explosives, Akksul grandstands in front of his followers, attempting to goad Ryder into making him a martyr. In response, Jaal informs them of Ryder's deeds in the name of their people and decries Akksul as a madman. 
When Akksul declares Jaal a traitor and draws a gun on him, Ryder can either kill Akksul, resulting in Roekaar activity throughout Heleus to intensify, or abstain, resulting in Jaal's face being scarred and most of Akksul's followers disbanding to their collective disillusionment.

Resources[]
Key Members[]
Akksul - Founder.
Farah Noskos - Head of a cell on Kadara.
Taavos - Member hailed as the reincarnation of ancient angaran champion Zorai.
Troop Varieties[]
The Roekaar field troops identical to those used by Outlaws, only sporting their own distinctive uniforms and using only angaran-made weapons. Such units include:

Roekaar Raider
Roekaar Saboteur
Roekaar Sharpshooter



