


A New Tuchanka krogan named Rorik is concerned about his angaran friend Ljeta, who disappeared some time ago. Track Ljeta down and give her Rorik's gift.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Question Velonia at the Paradise
2.2 Speak with Colt Dalton
2.3 View the dock records
2.4 Search the med center on Aya
2.5 Speak to Ljeta


3 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Elaaden: A New World

Speak to Rorik at New Tuchanka on Elaaden (marked with a). He is in the back end on the level (from the entrance). He has made a cryo-bracelet for Ljeta, and asks Pathfinder Ryder to give it to her if she can be found.

Walkthrough[]
Question Velonia at the Paradise[]
Head to The Paradise on Elaaden and speak with Velonia inside. She says that Ljeta had run into some trouble and lost her ship, so Velonia took her to Kadara. The turian then refers you to Colt Dalton at the Kadara Port to get more recent information.

Speak with Colt Dalton[]
After getting in touch with Colt, he says that Ljeta paid him to keep his mouth shut. Luckily it doesn't take much effort to make him loosen up, so Ryder gets a passcode giving access to the records of Kadara Port.
Nearby Colt, underneath the staircase is an Adapted Initiative Core Tech that can be scanned for +100 .

View the dock records[]
Head upstairs from Colt and interact with the dock records terminal. The records shows that Ljeta was injured and she was sent to Aya for treatment. Jaal Ama Darav suggests she probably was brought to the medical center in Aya for recovery.

Search the med center on Aya[]
Despite what the objective says, there is no "med center" on Aya. The actual location is the Infirmary  underneath the Resistance Headquarters. Head to the Infirmary, where Ljeta is lying on a bed.

Speak to Ljeta[]
On talking to her you find out that she doesn't want the bracelet and wants nothing to do with Rorik. During the conversation, you can learn more about what happened to her. After listening to Ljeta, you can either encourage her not to give up, or tell her that you understand and will drop the matter. Ryder's choice affects her disposition towards Rorik and whether or not she takes the bracelet. Once the conversation is over, the mission ends.

Rewards[]
+530 XP
+73 AVP 
+5% Elaaden viability



