




Rothla

Region
Milky Way / Krogan DMZ / Dranek





Planet View


Orbital Distance
1.15 AU


Orbital Period
2.3 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.288


Radius
4,263 km


Day Length
64.2 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.14 atm


Surface Temp
−153 °C 


Location: Milky Way / Krogan DMZ / Dranek System /  Fourth planet

Prerequisite: Mordin: Old Blood or Grunt: Rite of Passage and Firewalker Pack (Mass Effect 2)

Prerequisite: Priority: Sur'Kesh (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Mission
3 Mineral Deposits
4 Search and Rescue
5 Trivia


Description[]
Once Rothla was a large ice dwarf with the statistics listed below. In the waning years of the Krogan Rebellions it was shattered into field of debris by what is assumed to have been the test of an exotic weapons system. In the wake of "the event," the planetoid was reduced to a relatively contained field of thousands of tiny moonlets rotating around one another, colliding and ricocheting.
The method used to destroy the planetoid has never been deduced. The krogan clan who performed the experiment apparently all died in the event. Ships that have traveled to the edge of the event's light cone observed a moment of extreme gravitational lensing around Rothla immediately before its break up, but no other clues.
A popular extranet meme put forward by asari author Delsae Orthysa insists that the turians are covering up the existence of a krogan "super biotic" breed that was genetically engineered within Rothla. The CDEM enforces quarantine around the Rothla Field, citing cases of amateur investigators whose ships came to grief in the debris field.

Mission[]
Mission: Citadel: Barla Von
Mineral Deposits[]
Initial Scanner Result: Rich



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

Medium

7,400


Platinum

High

15,500


Iridium

Medium

7,000


Element Zero

Low

3,600

Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Shadow Broker Wet Squad
Trivia[]
Despite the planet being described as having been shattered, the image used in-game is of a typical spherical planet.



