









Rupert Gardner
Mess Sergeant

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
Bill Ratner


Appearances
Mass Effect 2


Mess Sergeant Rupert Gardner is an operative of Lazarus Cell and the cook, as well as all-around handyman, aboard the Normandy SR-2.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]
Gardner seems to be one of the more self-righteous crew members: in one conversation with Commander Shepard about his thoughts on Cerberus, he says that, "I'm damn proud. Cerberus gets the job done. The Alliance and the Council got their heads buried so deep up their butt-puckers they can’t see squat."
Before joining Cerberus, Gardner used to be a family man, working the element zero rigs along the frontier colonies. Though he was happy, he lost everything to batarian raiders and later joined Cerberus to make a difference. Remarking upon his own skills as a jack-of-all-trades, Gardner quips that he handles any task, including janitorial duties and plumbing, that "falls through the cracks". He concedes that he can’t fight, but is still willing to help in any way possible.
Gardner requests Shepard to buy high quality ingredients for the meals, so that the crew can enjoy a few fine meals to weather the storm; Shepard can buy these in the Zakera Cafe on the Citadel. If Gardner is provided with these provisions, crew members can be overheard commenting on the improvement to the food situation on the Normandy, including Ken Donnelly and Gabby Daniels down in Engineering. Kasumi Goto also comments on Gardner's cooking, if she is on board. Gardner offers a sample of his special calamari gumbo to Shepard, which he reveals is based on an asari recipe if the Commander accepts. Gardner comments that he finds it mildly cannibalistic that a tentacled race would eat other tentacled lifeforms like squid, but admits that the asari "know good grub".
If Shepard delays using the Omega 4 Relay to travel to the Collector Base after the crew of the Normandy is abducted by the Collectors, Gardner is processed into an organic material along with the rest of the crew. Alternatively, Gardner can be saved along with Kelly and Doctor Chakwas if the relay is used immediately.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3[]
If Gardner died at the Collector base, his name is added to the Normandy's Memorial Wall. If he survived, his current whereabouts are unknown.




