




Rylkor

 







Faction
Wildlife


Weapons / Attacks
Spit attackTail whip


Abilities
–


Armor
Normal


Shields
–


Weak Points
Head


The Rylkor is a wildlife unit endemic to Havarl and Kadara. While it superficially resembles certain bipedal dinosaurs, it is an egg-laying mammal.
Like several large creatures in the Heleus Cluster, the Rylkor rapidly dissolves when killed instead of leaving a carcass, though it may leave behind some items like Renderable Plates. This makes identifying the creature a difficult task, as it can only be scanned while it's alive and aggressive.
Echidnas share a similar build and classification to the Rylkor, possibly suggesting a relation.

Scanner Information[]
Rylkor


DATA:
Classification: Mammal
Origin: Andromeda
ANALYSIS:
A lanky, fork-tongued monotreme that lurches on its two hind legs. When provoked, it strikes from a distance with an astringent spit attack; at close range, it swipes adversaries with its agile tail.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
It strikes at targets with their tail in close range. At range, it flings a damaging projectile spit.

Defensive
They are protected by armor.

Tactics[]
A Rylkor is easily distracted by squadmate fire, or by other adversaries hitting it. Coupled with its slow movement speed, whittling its armor down is par for the course.
As with other armored targets, skills like Incinerate are handy against these creatures.
Using a shotgun is advised to bring them down, since they're large enough to be hit with the weapon's full blast at mid range.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




