









Salamul




Race
Krogan


Type
Organic, Biotic


Faction
Blood Pack


Armament
M-300 Claymore


Abilities
 Regeneration Berserker Charge Barrier Warp


Health
High


Armor
High


Barrier
High


Locations
Tarith


Salamul is a Krogan Battlemaster leading a squad of Blood Pack mercenaries on Tarith. 







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




He is the overseer of the mining operations on the planet. Salamul is also in communication with another Blood Pack base on Zada Ban and is sending resources gained from the mining operation there.
The mining operations are hit hard by hordes of Harvesters and Klixen, forcing the crew to evacuate the planet.
After arriving on Tarith to investigate an anomaly, Commander Shepard discovers the nature of the Blood Pack operations on the planet through the reading of several data pads scattered throughout the level. When Shepard encounters Salamul as he is attempting to evacuate the planet, a firefight ensues and Salamul is killed.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Salamul is armed with a M-300 Claymore Heavy Shotgun, and can use Warp.
Defensive
Salamul possesses a strong biotic barrier coupled with strong armor. He also has standard krogan regeneration, krogan charge and can cast Barrier.

Tactics[]
As soon as combat starts, Salamul will aggressively move towards the squad, often focusing on the player. He will rarely go into cover, if at all, and will actively try to flank the player. Cover should be limited to blocking most of the vorcha fire, because Salamul will just circumvent any cover you're in and charge from up close.
His charge combined with the powerful blasts of his M-300 Claymore makes him a serious threat up-close. Because of that, the squad's efforts should be concentrated to bringing him down before he gets close enough to cause serious damage.
Warp attacks are recommended. It stops him from regenerating in addition to being effective against his barrier and armor.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




