




Sanctum

Region
Milky Way / Sigurd's Cradle / Decoris





Planet View


Orbital Distance
2.6 AU


Orbital Period
4.2 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.996


Radius
6,651 km


Day Length
69.4 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.4 atm


Surface Temp
−50 °C (mean), 4 °C (equator)


Surface Gravity
1.2 g


Mass
1.295 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Sigurd's Cradle / Decoris System /  Second planet


Colony

Capital
Vulpes


Colony Founded
2169


Population
257,300



Prerequisite: N7: MSV Strontium Mule (Mass Effect 2)

Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Missions
4 Assignments
5 Mineral Deposits
6 Trivia


Description[]
Sanctum is proof of the old spacer adage, "just because it's called a garden world doesn't mean it's a picnic." Freezing ice storms cover the poles and temperate zones, leaving a narrow strip of habitable land at the equator. Dry but windy, this area is home to Sanctum's minimal terrestrial plant life. The planet has yet to develop land-based animals, though invertebrates grow quite large in its pelagic seas.
Mining, referred to as "ice cracking" at anywhere but the equator, is a common employment on Sanctum. The planet is rich in platinum and palladium deposits, as well as boron, which is locally used in semiconductor doping.
TRAVEL ADVISORY: Carbon dioxide levels on Sanctum can reach 5,000 parts per million during thermal inversions. Travelers should carry a breath mask at all times and consult the Sanctum World Weather Service for warnings.
TRAVEL ADVISORY: Piracy is at a fourteen-year global high on Sanctum. Visitors should take appropriate security precautions.

Codex Entry[]
Sanctum is known for the freezing ice storms which sweep across its poles and temperate zones, with only a thin strip of habitable land along the equator. Because of those harsh living conditions, Sanctum attracts only the most gruff and hardy, from miners to mercenaries to company men. Mining, referred to as "ice cracking" anywhere but the equator, is the backbone of Sanctum's economy. The planet is rich in platinum and palladium deposits, as well as boron, which is locally used in semiconductor doping.
Sanctum's corporate factions have learned that Cerberus is involved in the planet's finances. Systems Alliance intelligence agents embedded within the corporate strata are quietly urging the companies to confront Cerberus directly, but so far, financial bickering has kept Sanctum's major stakeholders from acting against the Illusive Man.


Missions[]
Mission: Citadel: Alien Medi-Gel Formula
Mission: N7: Cerberus Lab
Assignments[]
Assignment: N7: Blue Suns Base
Mineral Deposits[]
Initial Scanner Result: Good



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

Medium

5,300


Platinum

High

10,800


Iridium

Medium

6,700


Element Zero

Medium

6,600

Trivia[]
Vulpes, the name of this world's capital, is also the scientific name for a genus of fox.
The Mass Effect 3 multiplayer map Firebase Glacier is located on Sanctum.



