







The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.



Sannul "Smiley" Amnoss
Drug Lord

Race
Salarian


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect (cut)


Sannul "Smiley" Amnoss is a character who was cut from Mass Effect during development. He was the salarian leader of a drug cartel that operated on Caleston.
When their clan was buried in an earthquake, the Amnoss brothers, Sannul and Raciloma, were left fending for themselves. After becoming turning to mercenary work, Sannul eventually became a drug baron, and his brother serving as his bodyguard. At one point "Smiley" came to Caleston and took over part of the Throw Down refinery to use its labs to produce red sand. Smiley claims he only sells his drugs to the rich on Earth, and donates money to the poor in remembrance of his own destitute past. Despite these claims, that didn't stop him from buying Oronath's medical bay from Eldfell-Ashland Energy to use it as his private residence, forcing the hanar medic to relocate into a much more limited locale.
Liara T'Soni made a deal with Smiley to smuggle Prothean artefacts off-world which she recovered at digsites. That is how, according to Throw Down administrator Nonya Tombiri, she was kidnapped. That turns out to be a convenient lie made to have Commander Shepard kill Smiley, destroying the Cartel in the process. Confronted inside his home, Smiley tells the truth however; that Tombiri is the secret leader of the rivaling criminal organization, the Miners' Union, and that Liara isn't in Throw Down. Shepard may then convince Smiley to reveal Liara's true location, or kill him for being a criminal. If left alive, he can be taken to Harrah's jail to await his trial, though he later taunts Shepard, saying he can buy the best lawyers and there's no evidence.[1] As news reports confirm however, the Caleston Cartel is finished no matter what at this point.[2]

References[]

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav20_sannulamnoss

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#sp_news_vids





