









Sarah Campbell
Private

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect 3


Private Sarah Campbell is an Alliance soldier serving in the Normandy SR-2. Together with Private Bethany Westmoreland, they guard the doors separating the CIC and the conference/war rooms. The pair pass the time by being opinionated in the aftermath of Commander Shepard's major missions.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Following Shepard's tepid meeting with the Citadel Council after Mars, Campbell can't believe they won't do anything to help. After the retrieval of Primarch Adrien Victus from Menae, Sarah thinks he seems like a good guy who'll get his people moving in the right direction. She also acknowledges the turians' tenacity and refusal to quit when things get ugly. After Eve's rescue from Sur'Kesh, Sarah thinks the Cerberus forces sent to retrieve the krogan outmatched the salarians because of their Reaper implants, figuring the salarians might as well have been throwing rocks.
Sarah watched vids of Kalros taking down the Reaper Destroyer on Tuchanka, and wishes she was there when it happened. After the failed Cerberus coup on the Citadel, Sarah curses the bastards and Councilor Udina as well, for his role in conspiring with the terrorists. When Shepard's focus shifts to the geth-quarian war, Sarah figures it's reasonable since they will lose their supply lines without the Migrant Fleet, and losing supply lines assures losing the whole war every time. 
Following Shepard taking down another Destroyer on Rannoch, Sarah is impressed again, more so that it happened without a giant thresher maw helping. However, she briefly loses morale in the aftermath of the mission failure on Thessia. The slump is rectified with the success of the mission on Horizon, where Sarah deems the Cerberus forces responsible there inhuman for voluntarily having Reaper tech implanted and helping turn other people into husks. Once the terrorists has been completely destroyed, Sarah asks Bethany if she's ready for the final battle on Earth.
During the aftermath of less vital missions Sarah also has opinions on things. She derides people on the Citadel for acting like there's no war on. She wants to exact payback for races who sat back once the war is over.
After hearing another colony had to be evacuated, Sarah muses they're losing a lot while the Reapers aren't. They can't be bombed, or else the allied forces will just be bombing what's left of their own planets. They also turn civilians into soldiers and have no supply lines, so she is at a loss thinking up how to beat them.
Spending most of their time guarding doors, Sarah wonders why it's important when she and Bethany could be on the front lines. After learning about the Collector invasion on the ship, Sarah sobers up and accepts the situation.
Sarah had a buddy who was classified Category 6 and discharged after the geth attack on Eden Prime. Her friend didn't want to leave, and told her he was joining Cerberus instead. She reported it to her superiors, figuring she doesn't want that association on her record. She has no love lost for the human supremacist organization, as while she isn't much of an alien-lover she needs a better reason than "it has scales" to kill them. Cerberus taking in Alliance rejects and Cat-6 washouts just reinforces her contempt on them. She also heard from her old sergeant that the organization started out as a black ops arm of the Alliance. 
Sarah has a favorite mug she uses during her shift. With all regular personnel absent from the Normandy during its hijacking, the mug can be recovered by Shepard on their way to retake the ship from their own clone.




