



For a complete list of all Codex entries and how to get them, see Codex Entry Guide.
The Scholar achievement is one of the easiest achievements to unlock. However it does require you to interact with characters that become unavailable later in the game.
To complete the achievement you will need to find the following subjects:

Contents

1 Aliens: Council Races
2 Aliens: Extinct Races
3 Aliens: Non-Council Races
4 Notification Glitch
5 Scholar Walkthrough

5.1 On the Normandy
5.2 On Eden Prime
5.3 On Citadel




Aliens: Council Races[]
Asari
Automatically unlocked after meeting the Council.
Alternately, talk to Saphyria, the Embassy Receptionist, before meeting the Council.
Salarians
Automatically unlocked after meeting the Council.
Turians
Automatically unlocked after first conversation in game.
Aliens: Extinct Races[]
Prothean
Beginning of game on the SSV Normandy before Eden Prime during the briefing with Nihlus. (During the briefing with Captain Anderson and Nihlus, when the 'Investigate' options becomes available choose that, followed by the Prothean option.)
Rachni
Presidium, Avina Terminal III (Financial District, by the Krogan Monument). Ask about the Rachni Wars.
Also Noveria, Han Olar the volus and Yaroslev Tartakovsky. Ask about the rachni.
Aliens: Non-Council Races[]
Batarians
After you become a Spectre, ask Anderson about his past mission with Saren upon acquiring the Normandy, or speak to him once you return to the Citadel (he's in the ambassador's office). If your character has the Spacer or Colonist background, the specialised missions also give background on the batarians. The Bring Down The Sky DLC will automatically unlock it as well.
Elcor
Presidium, Embassies, volus and elcor offices, talk to elcor ambassador Calyn, or -
Noveria, Rift Station. Talk to Petozi.
Geth
Ask Ashley Williams about the geth when you first meet her, or -
After Eden Prime, ask Captain Anderson during the debrief.
Hanar
Presidium, Emporium, talk to either Delan or the Preaching Hanar.
Keepers
Avina Terminal II (Near the Citadel Tower Elevator on the Presidium, next to the keeper) - ask about the keepers, or
Talk to Chorban while obtaining his assignment Citadel: Scan the Keepers.
Krogan
Presidium, Do the mission to obtain Wrex.
Quarians
Do the mission to get Tali.
Volus
Presidium, Embassies, volus and elcor offices, talk to volus ambassador Din Korlack, or Avina at the same place.
Full credit to Armando Castillo for his guide available from GameFAQ's

Notification Glitch[]
In some cases for 360 players, the Scholar achievement doesn't register as a pop-up when achieved. Check your Achievements list if you believe you've discovered all the required Codex entries.
It has also been reported that some players haven't received the Scholar achievement despite getting all the entries.

Scholar Walkthrough[]
On the Normandy[]
Prothean → Talk to Nihlus during your conversation with him and Captain Anderson aboard the ship just before Eden Prime.

On Eden Prime[]
Geth → Talk to Ashley when you first meet her.

On Citadel[]
Volus → As soon as you are on the Citadel go to the Presidium. In the Embassies, find the volus and elcor office and talk to ambassador Din Korlack.
Elcor → Talk to Ambassador Calyn
Rachni → Talk to Avina, next to the krogan statue. This completes the Aliens: Extinct Races.
Hanar → Talk to Delan, the hanar shopkeeper in the Emporium.
Keepers → Talk to Avina next to the keeper.

Use Citadel Rapid Transport to go to the Citadel Tower
Salarians → Go to the hearing.
Turians → Go to the hearing.
Asari → Go to the hearing. This Completes the Aliens: Council Races in the Codex.
Krogan → Do the mission to get Wrex into your crew.
Quarians → Talk to Wrex in C-sec.

Become a Spectre.
Batarians → Talk to Captain Anderson about past mission with Saren.

Scholar achievement unlocked.




Mass Effect Guides




Completion

Walkthrough • Morality • Experience • Systems • Mako • Codex


Achievements

Completionist • Rich Achievement •  Party Member Achievements  Scholar Achievement • Weapon and Ability Achievements


Classes

Adept • Engineer • Infiltrator • Sentinel • Soldier • Vanguard


Other

Squad Members • PC Tweaks • Merchants




