






This article is about the class in Mass Effect, Mass Effect 2, Mass Effect 3, and Mass Effect: Andromeda. For other uses, see Sentinel (disambiguation).

Contents

1 Mass Effect

1.1 Talents
1.2 Class Talent


2 Mass Effect 2

2.1 Weapons Training
2.2 Powers


3 Mass Effect 3

3.1 Powers
3.2 Weight Capacity


4 Mass Effect: Andromeda
5 See also
6 References


Mass Effect[]
The Sentinel class combines both tech expertise and an aptitude for biotics. They are able to equip both biotic amp and omni-tool models specialized for combat. Kaidan Alenko is an L2 Sentinel.
Sentinels are support-oriented characters, possessing biotic and tech abilities that allow them to bypass locks and security systems, disable and control enemies, or heal the party. They are moderately proficient with pistols but have only average skill with other weapons. The Sentinel has fairly durable shields, with access to many shield-increasing talents including the biotic Barrier. However, being the only playable class not to possess an armor talent, the Sentinel does not have access to the Shield Boost ability, nor can it wear heavier types of body armor, leaving it somewhat vulnerable to damage that kinetic barriers do not block.
The Sentinel's class talent reduces the cooldown time on its abilities and grants small amounts of pistol accuracy and damage, culminating in the Marksman combat ability (Commander Shepard only). However, unlike other classes that can train with pistols, a Sentinel Shepard is unable to reach the higher Advanced or Master levels of Marksman. A Sentinel Shepard can further specialize into Bastion or Medic giving them access to levels 7 - 12 of the class talent (see below).

Talents[]
See also: Talents#Class Specific





Class: Sentinel


 Throw




 Lift

Unlocked at Throw 7


 Barrier




 Stasis

Unlocked at Barrier 6


 Decryption




 Electronics

Unlocked at Decryption 4


 First Aid




 Medicine

Unlocked at First Aid 5








Class Talent[]
Special training allows Sentinels to use tech and biotics more efficiently than other classes.
Reduces the recharge time of tech abilities
Reduces the recharge time of biotics abilities
Increases damage and accuracy with pistols

Reduces the cooldown time of Throw, Lift, Barrier and Stasis by 3%. Reduces the cooldown time of Sabotage, Overload, First Aid and Neural Shock by 3%. Increase pistol damage by 2%. Increase pistol accuracy by 4%.
Reduces the cooldown time of biotic and tech talents by 5%. Increase pistol damage by 4%. Increase pistol accuracy by 7%.
Reduces the cooldown time of biotic and tech talents by 7%. Increase pistol damage by 6%. Increase pistol accuracy by 10%.
Reduces the cooldown time of biotic and tech talents by 8%. Increase pistol damage by 8%. Increase pistol accuracy by 13%.
Reduces the cooldown time of biotic and tech talents by 9%. Increase pistol damage by 10%. Increase pistol accuracy by 16%.
Reduces the cooldown time of biotic and tech talents by 10%. Increase pistol damage by 12%. Increase pistol accuracy by 19% (Kaidan only). Marksman (Shepard only).
Mass Effect 2[]
Sentinels are unique, bringing both tech and biotic abilities to the battlefield. While they lack the focus of adepts and engineers, they are versatile and can handle any situation. Sentinels are equipped with the most advanced ablation armor system to keep themselves safe. If overloaded, the system will stun all enemies within a short distance. This advanced shield causes the sentinel to be like a "Juggernaut" so to speak, making it less necessary to take cover, and rushing your enemies much more productive.
Weapons Training[]
Heavy Pistols
Submachine Guns
Heavy Weapons
Powers[]





Class: Sentinel


 Throw




 Warp

Unlocked at Throw 2


 Tech Armor




 Overload

Unlocked at Tech Armor 2


 Cryo Blast

Unlocked at Overload 2


 Defender










Mass Effect 3[]
Sentinels are unique, bringing both tech and biotic abilities to the battlefield. In addition to complete weapons training, Sentinels are equipped with an advanced shield that makes taking cover much less necessary and rushing their enemies much more productive. This armor system can also be detonated to blast nearby enemies.

Powers[]





Class: Sentinel


 Throw




 Warp

Unlocked at Level 3


 Lift Grenade

Unlocked at Level 6


 Tech Armor




 Overload

Unlocked at Level 3


 Cryo Blast

Unlocked at Level 6


 Offensive Mastery




 Fitness

Unlocked at Level 3








Weight Capacity[]
See also: Weight Capacity
The Sentinel has a weight capacity bonus of 15 at Level 1 of Offensive Mastery, increasing to 35 at Level 2. A maximum capacity bonus of 70 is achievable by choosing the 'Weight Capacity' upgrade at Level 5 of Offensive Mastery. This puts the Sentinel in league with the Infiltrator and Vanguard, lower than the Soldier but higher than the Adept and Engineer.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]

Main article: Profiles
Mass Effect: Andromeda no longer uses the class system of a locked in character "class" chosen at the beginning of gameplay but uses flexible Profiles instead. 
Pathfinder Ryder has the ability to change profiles at anytime (including during combat). This allows a vastly larger amount of customization than seen in prior Mass Effect games.
The Sentinel profile is one of seven profiles available to Ryder.
Sentinels are unique combatants, bringing a mix of tech and biotic abilities to the battlefield.
This profile creates a direct link between Ryder's armor and his/her armor's built-in computer systems, granting him/her additional protection via flash-forged shielding.
Bonus power - TECH ARMOR: Absorbs a significant amount of whatever damage gets past shields.
Note:  The TECH ARMOR bonus power is +30 Damage Resistance, which protects both health and shields.[1]

See also[]
Bastion
Medic
Sentinel Guide
Sentinel Guide (Mass Effect 2)
Sentinel Guide (Mass Effect 3)
References[]

↑ https://twitter.com/Jason_Eldred/status/846099637257822208






Classes




Soldier • Engineer • Adept • Infiltrator • Vanguard • Sentinel



Mass Effect Talents


Biotic

Barrier • Lift • Singularity • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Assault Rifles • Pistols • Shotguns • Sniper Rifles • Assault Training • Fitness • Basic Armor • Combat Armor • Tactical Armor


Tech

Damping • Decryption • Electronics • First Aid • Hacking • Medicine


Class

Adept • Asari Scientist • Engineer • Infiltrator • Krogan Battlemaster • Quarian Machinist • Sentinel • Soldier • Turian Agent • Vanguard


Player only

Charm • Intimidate • Spectre Training




