









Seryna
Dantius Ex-Employee

Race
Asari


Gender
Feminine


Voice Actor
April Banigan


Appearances
Mass Effect 2


Seryna is an office worker stationed at the cargo transfer levels of Nos Astra, Illium.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Background[]
Seryna used to run security for Nassana Dantius. However, she learned that Nassana had people assassinated to cover up her dirty secrets. She confronted Nassana about it, though her boss fired her in response. She eventually got a job in the transport sector, but she deems her present circumstances a "living hell".
Thane Krios contacted Seryna for details on Nassana's security arrangements, intending to "restore the balance of his life" by killing Dantius. Seryna felt Nassana erred in dismissing her, as she might have been good enough to stop the assassin, but nevertheless obliged in telling Thane everything she knew. As long as Nassana gets her comeuppance, Seryna wouldn't lose any sleep if someone killed her old paranoid employer whatever the reason. Having done her research on Thane she's willing to help free of charge anyone who might assist the assassin in doing it.

Mass Effect 2[]
Seryna is initially busy and says as much if Commander Shepard tries to speak with her. She directs Shepard to talk to Admin instead, and gets snippy if the Commander bothers her further. However, once Liara T'Soni reveals Seryna to be a person to talk to regarding Thane, she becomes amenable.
Shepard approaches Seryna in the course of looking for Thane to recruit him. She beckons her officemate Tana to cover for her while she converses privately with Shepard. She informs them Thane is going after Nassana at the Dantius Towers, and reveals a potential entry point at Tower Two that they can use to reach the assassin. 
Seryna has slightly different recollections of Nassana depending on Shepard's prior association with the latter. If there was none, she calls Nassana a wealthy speculator with a nasty disposition who had business rivals and government officials murdered, and even heard she took out her own sister. If there was, Shepard vaguely recalls Nassana's name at first, then Seryna reminds them Nassana used to be a representative on the Citadel. Shepard then remembers they killed Nassana's slaver sister. Seryna is surprised as she thought that was just a rumor, but takes it as confirmation Shepard knows what Nassana's capable of. Either way, Seryna warns Nassana has more power on Illium and uses it to keep her friends in check and her enemies dead.
As with Thane, Seryna can tell Shepard about Nassana's defenses. She also volunteers to get Shepard's team in, but warns they only have one shot at their plan. She approves if Shepard immediately declares they're ready to go, but if Shepard asks first for specifics she becomes impatient to get on with it when they finally move. Either way Seryna advises waiting until the evening to take advantage of the shift change at Tower Two.
Later, Seryna drives Shepard's team to Dantius Towers. If Shepard asks, Seryna explains it's not feasible to just fly directly to the penthouse where Nassana's holed up due to rocket defenses. Thane will also try to attack stealthily, so a similar approach is prudent. Seryna can also dispense last-minute advice about the legions of Eclipse mercs Nassana hired to keep herself safe: they have no automated defenses, everything is mobile. After dropping off Shepard's squad at the nearly empty second Tower, Seryna bids them good luck then leaves.
The assassination proceeds perfectly and Shepard manages to recruit Thane. Seryna has fled Illium by the time she hears the news. Telling Tana she took a job off-world, she entrusts her workmate with an audio message for Shepard should they visit her former office. In the message she promises to buy Thane a drink if they ever cross paths. For her part, Tana found Seryna edgy but tolerable enough to talk to, and hopes her superiors hire a replacement for their difficult job soon.




