







The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.



Sessa Tarrent
Union Mercenary

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect (cut)


Sessa Tarrent is a character who was cut during the development of Mass Effect. She was a mercenary working for the Miners' Union while overseeing the Throw Down refinery.
Prior to the events Commander Shepard takes part in, Sessa Tarrent had worked with Raciloma Amnoss for four years during which they developed a romantic bond, with Sessa calling him "Racil", and Raciloma giving a ring to her.[1] Eventually however, they would come to work for rival organizations on Caleston: Raciloma for his brother's Cartel, and Sessa for the Union. Inevitably, Throw Down administrator and Union chairman Nonya Tombiri contracts Sessa to kill Raciloma, for which she uses Shepard's arrival to her advantage to assist Sessa.
Shepard first meets Sessa Tarrent (along with Fred Mazzei) at the refinery when the pair witnesses Raciloma kill a few refinery workers who were harrassing scientist Violetta Rossi. Despite Fred's insistence, Sessa refuses to act and says the workers had it coming.[2] Thanks to her "Spider VI", Sessa immediately knows Shepard is a Spectre. She says the Union has located one of the Cartel's drug caches not far from Throw Down and she would like Shepard to be part of the team sent to destroy it, which must be done in order to advance the plot.
Sessa seems to have a complicated relationship with Fred Mazzei: she states several times that she can't stand idiots, but Fred, who is pretty goofy and incompetent, is usually by her side and seems to have been for some time. Fred respects her and wants to impress her, but he also despises her constant condescension.[3] She tasked him with extorting credits from Oronath while knowing full well he wouldn't manage it, which she reveals if Shepard does it in his stead. If Fred ends up fleeing and wanting to get off-world during the course of Caleston: Last Man Standing, she says she should have killed him but has better things to do. At one point however, in the opposite case, Shepard can convince Sessa to let Fred Mazzei oversee the refinery instead of her, which she somehow reluctantly agrees to as she doesn't like doing that job.[4]
After the Cartel cache job is complete, Sessa tasks Shepard with helping set up the ambush for Raciloma Amnoss. She appears unusually distracted at the prospect of having to kill him. At the meeting with Raciloma, it becomes obvious her feelings are still reciprocated. Both Sessa and Raciloma order their own men not to shoot the other one. Despite this, Raciloma is eventually wounded and dies by Sessa, telling her to always be professional and not let others see who she really is. Sessa then tells Shepard to take Raciloma's pass to get to his brother Smiley. If Shepard acts professional, Sessa says she doesn't want to know what happens to Raciloma's body. If Shepard asks if she's okay, Sessa abruptly bursts out and threatens to kill Shepard before leaving the scene.[5]
Shepard soon learns from Smiley that Tombiri is the secret head of the Union. Regardless of Smiley's fate, Shepard sees Sessa again for the last time while exiting Smiley's mansion, intercepting the Commander with a band of Union men to protect their boss Tombiri. Shepard may have to kill her, or can persuade her to leave with her men by appealing to her feelings toward Raciloma and using Charm or Intimidate. If unable to persuade her, Jason Harrah may also appear to prevent a bloodbath if enough of the assignment Caleston: Redemption had been completed prior.[6] Whatever the case, Sessa Tarrent is apparently never seen or heard from again after this point.

References[]

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav40_trig04_union_assassin; Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav40_trig05_raciloma_dies (1)

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav40_trig02_professionals

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav60_fredmazzei (2)

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav40_sessatarrent (3)

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav40_trig05_raciloma_dies (2)

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav20_trig07_sessa_confront





