







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.





The Shadow Broker Base is a massive ship that travels through the volatile atmosphere of Hagalaz, which conceals its presence. It is from here that the Shadow Broker rules his empire.

Contents

1 Exterior
2 Interior
3 Intel Center

3.1 Advanced Training
3.2 Armor Locker
3.3 Delivery Pickup
3.4 Dossiers
3.5 Info Drone
3.6 Investment Opportunities
3.7 Research Terminal
3.8 Shadow Broker Ship Model
3.9 Shutter Control
3.10 Sound System
3.11 Survey Information
3.12 Video Archive


4 Mass Effect 3
5 Missions



Exterior[]

The exterior of the Shadow Broker's ship is a hazardous place. The Shadow Broker's private army patrols the exterior, and Maintenance Drones tend to the hull and the systems on the exterior of the ship. The exterior also has no hand or guardrails making it a dangerous place to patrol. The atmospheric conditions of Hagalaz don't make the process any easier, but the risk of patrols being struck by stray lightning bolts from the omnipresent electrical storms is mitigated by large conducting rods that channel energy into giant hull-mounted capacitors.


Interior[]

The interior of the ship has many compartments including the ship's engines, which must remain active at all times to prevent it from falling. Also inside is central operations, probably the nerve center of the ship. There is also a prison block where the Shadow Broker keeps hostages, and torture facilities for interrogation purposes. Finally there is the Shadow Broker's Office, Intel Center, and private quarters. Within the private quarters, a custom VI Drone assists the Shadow Broker with maintaining his massive network of informants, contacts, and agents. Despite the ship's volatile location, motion dampeners absorb the noise and vibrations from the storm outside.


Intel Center[]

Following the Shadow Broker's defeat and the ascension of Liara T'Soni as the new one, Commander Shepard gains free access to the base. In the immediate aftermath of the battle, drones can be seen repairing the damage to the premises. The work is finished in subsequent visits to the base. The footage recorded by Veetor at Freedom's Progress which shows the Collectors abducting humans can be seen on two screens in the area.
Inside the Shadow Broker's Intel Center are several terminals with numerous functions.

Advanced Training[]
The Advanced Training terminal allows the redistribution of a squadmate's ability points at a cost of 1000 Element Zero per character.

Armor Locker[]
This is a standard Armor Locker like the one located on the Normandy SR-2, where it has the similar function of allowing armor and outfit customization.

Delivery Pickup[]

The Shadow Broker's contacts frequently deliver materials to the base. Shepard can instead receive these for their own use. This terminal next to the central one in the room reports which resources are received when accessed. 
New deliveries are received daily or between missions or assignments. The items are either weapon upgrades or resources. The amount of resources obtained with each pickup is selected randomly. Platinum, palladium, and iridium are dispensed in quantities of 2,500, 5,000, 10,000, 20,000, 40,000, 80,000, or 160,000. Element zero is dispensed in quantities of 1,250, 2,500, 5,000, 10,000, 20,000, 40,000, or 80,000. Possible shipments are listed below.

Upgrades:
Sniper Rifle Damage Upgrade - "An ex-STG weapons researcher has sent a schematic that will improve sniper rifle damage."
Submachine Gun Damage Upgrade - "Batarian State Arms has sent a schematic for modifying the SMG in exchange for help in blackmailing Citadel officials."
Shotgun Damage Upgrade - "An agent in the Skyllian Verge has sent a schematic for a shotgun modification."
Assault Rifle Damage Upgrade - "This assault rifle modification was found on the body of an Elkoss Combine spy who failed an attempt at corporate espionage."
Resources:
Element Zero - "A spy inside Eldfell-Ashland Energy has sent a shipment of element zero."
Platinum - "A minister from Terra Nova has sent platinum from the planet's reserves for favors rendered."
Palladium  - "A money-laundering recycling center has sent palladium salvaged from old armor and cybernetics."
Iridium - "A start-up mining company has delivered its protection payment in iridium."
Note: Reloading a save before getting the shipment rerolls the obtainable item, but only one shipment per day/mission/assignment is allowed. To expedite the collection of all upgrades, change the system date on your console or PC. Save after a pick up, change the date on your system and then reload the save. It is advisable to use dates in the past, because the game automatically loads the "newest" save game on "Resume" from main menu and Quick-Load, i.e. the save with the latest date. Alternatively, you can just delete these "future" save games after you are done. The same process still works in Mass Effect Legendary Edition.

Dossiers[]
Main article: Shadow Broker Dossiers
This terminal contains intelligence files on the squad, several other figures, certain organizations, and Liara's predecessor. These files consist of information on these characters' recent activities.

Info Drone[]
Main article: Info Drone
The Info Drone is a specially built VI that assists the Shadow Broker in coordinating the network. It follows the "Broker" around, as it is programmed to recognize anyone in the room as the Broker, and give them periodic updates about the Galaxy and the people in it.

Investment Opportunities[]
Main article: Investment Opportunities
The Investment Opportunities terminal allows for participation in galactic events via infusion of credits and potentially reaping the same in rewards. Success yields a return in credit investment while failure results in lost credits.

Research Terminal[]

This is a Research Terminal like the one located on the Normandy SR-2, where upgrades can be examined and purchased.

Shadow Broker Ship Model[]
On the table next to the survey information terminal, there is a Shadow Broker ship model can be added to the Model Ships collection.

Shutter Control[]
To the right of the table with the Shadow Broker ship model is a window shutter control, which can be opened or closed for a view of the storm clouds outside.

Sound System[]
In the private quarters, just before the Video Archive.  Much like the one located on the Normandy SR-2, except it plays various tracks from the Mass Effect 2 Score.

Survey Information[]

This terminal accepts payment in credits in exchange for locations of planets rich in a particular resource. Once this information has been purchased a label will be added to the Normandy's Galaxy Map at the location of the designated planet.
Note: No locations are provided if all the planets with "Good" or "Rich" resource levels have been mined already.

Eezo Mining Company  Provides the location of a planet rich with eezo. Credits required: 1,000
Iridium Mining Company  Provides the location of a planet rich with iridium. Credits required: 300
Palladium Mining Company  Provides the location of a planet rich with palladium. Credits required: 300
Platinum Mining Company  Provides the location of a planet rich with platinum. Credits required: 650
Video Archive[]
Main article: Video Archive
The Video Archive is a surveillance center containing video clips of people all around the galaxy that the Shadow Broker has been observing.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3[]
Sometime prior to the Reaper invasion in 2186, Liara T'Soni learns that the Illusive Man has tracked her down and wants to capture the Shadow Broker Base for Cerberus' own ends. Expecting an attack and knowing that the aging Base is not suited for space travel, Liara and Feron load as much of the Base's information drives and communications equipment aboard a shuttle as they can and escape as Cerberus ships approach. Liara remotely crashes the Shadow Broker Base into a Cerberus cruiser, resulting in the destruction of both ships.
Assorted tech from the remains of the ship can be salvaged and used to aid the construction of the Crucible.

Missions[]
Mission: Lair of the Shadow Broker



