


Asari Justicar. Rigidity of Justicar Code makes her movements and mission outcomes predictable. Mother of three Ardat-Yakshi, one of which remains wanted for murder in Citadel Space.
Transmission Log[]
Transmission Log, 1755 CE
Samara: I have called you together to ask something of you. It is not a small thing, but it is for the best. Rila, Falere, are you receiving this?
Falere: Quite well.
Rila: [Indistinct]-s, Mother.
F: We're in a common room, her communicator's too near the door. [Door shuts.] Try now, Mother.
S: This news would be best delivered in person, but I am not allowed to travel before tomorrow. I have something I must do. It is hazardous, and thus I must do it alone.
F: What do you mean, hazardous?
S: Tomorrow I take the Oath of Solitude. It is to prepare me for the other oaths, but it means--
F: You what?
S: It is an oath required of all who--
F: I know what it means, Mother! I'm forty-two years old, I have heard of justicars.
S: Then... do you understand why I must do it?
F: No.
S: The life of a justicar is dangerous. I will make enemies, and they would seek to use you-
F: That I understand! What is not clear is why you do this in the first place. Is it not enough that we live a hundred light-years away from you in a dank fortress? That we have no communicator of our own but must use this communal one? Do you know what it means to us to hear your voice?
S: I am sorry, Falere.
F: And now you take that away.
S: That is wounding, but it is the truth. I wish there were some other path.
F: And you called us instead of coming to see us.
S: If I came to see you, I would never leave. You know what that would mean.
F: Is she that terrible, Mother? Is she so much of a menace that you would deny us ever seeing you, ever hearing your voice again?
S: My dear... I cannot lose her on the world and pretend I owe her victims nothing. Her crimes are my crimes. In time you may see as I do.
F: Time is a weak salve for a fresh wound.
S: Please... do not let anger ruin this. We will have our lives to contemplate the pain and loss. Can we not see from one another's eyes, just for a moment?
F: (silence)
S: Falere?
F: I don't want to lose you, Mother. Not over someone as small as Mirala, or whatever she calls herself now.
S: And Rila? You have been silent. Are you in accord?
R: I can only say I will yearn for you too.
S: Surely you have more than that.
R: Is this the only way you will have any righteousness, Mother?
S: It will let me live a just life.
R: Then the Goddess forbid I take it from you.
[Rila terminates call.]
F: She loves you, Mother. She did not say it, but she does.
S: And you? Can you understand why I must do this?
F: Catch her. Just catch her.
[Falere terminates call.]

Inventory[]
Possessions bequeathed by Justicar Samara:
Large Goods:
- Four-bedroom home on Thessia
- Furniture and household appliances
- Elkoss Sapphire family skycar
Clothing and Jewelry:
- Casual clothing (approx. 20 outfits)
- Intimate negligees (3)
- Dancing dresses (4)
- Bond ceremony gown
- Bond ceremony bracelet
- Holo-locket (images of bondmate, children -- reprogrammable)
- Baby and children clothing (various)
Miscellaneous:
- Lifetime Serrice Fitness membership pass
- First-place trophy (amateur skyball league)
- Vid and novel library (various)
- Photo albums (various)
- Sculpture of Samara and bondmate
- Personalized "Happy Birthday Mom" travel mug with photo of Samara and children (handle cracked and repaired, some glue marks visible)
- Memorial sphere (bondmate)
- Birthing creche




