


Ex-Alliance soldier. Biotic training. Despite solid service history, clearly placed on Shepard's team primarily for stabilizing elements of personality.  
Workout Routine[]
Most recent workout stats:
- Crunches: 300
- Side crunches: 250 (per side)
- Squat thrusts: 300
- Leg lifts: 250
- Leg lifts (weighted): 125
- Half sit-ups: 600
Most popular workout entertainment:
- Blasto: The Jellyfish Stings
- Making of Blasto: The Jellyfish Stings
- Old Yeller: Centennial Remastered Edition
- Asari Confessions 26: True Blue

Military Correspondence[]
February 19, 2184
Mr. Jacob Taylor
578C-8234-09
Tower 2, Bachjret Ward
Citadel
Dear Mr. Taylor,
It was with great regret that I learned of your resignation from the Alliance military. In your many years of service, you have proven yourself an exemplary marine. You have been an invaluable asset to the Alliance military, and we will miss your expertise and loyalty.
It is for this reason that I am prepared to offer you a promotion to the rank of First Lieutenant along with the corresponding raise in pay grade. I would welcome you as an addition to my company.
I hope that you will give my offer due consideration and I personally look forward to your response.
Sincerely,
Col. Hashim Banks
First Earth Division Special Forces
Alliance Military

Personal Correspondence[]
To: Jacob Taylor
From: Ronald Taylor
Son,
If you're reading this, then I'm gone. With the inherent dangers of these missions, it seems foolish not to have some letter like this ready, so I'm sending this before we get too far from our last relay.
I remember the look on your face when I left. You wanted to ask me not to go, but you didn't. You've grown to be a wise young man with a strong sense of duty. I wish I could take credit for that, but it has more to do with who you are than anything I taught you.
The truth is I haven't been around enough. And if you're reading this, then I'm never going to have the chance to fix that. My job is an important one, but a man can't hide behind the pressures of work. This was to be my last trip. Easy for me to say now, I know, but the money from this expedition would have let me settle down with you and your mother to carve out some kind of peaceful quiet life far away from the pressures of space. Before I left, you were talking about joining the Alliance. I hope you find the same kind of peace and camaraderie with your team that I've found on the Gernsback.
I love you, son, and I'm proud of the man you've become. I wish I could have told you that one last time.
Love,
Dad




