


Shaman Kortik fears New Tuchanka will descend into a clan war unless two rival warriors perform the Rite of Union. A krogan war will likely be bad news for the Nexus and the stability of Heleus.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Enter a wild fiend habitat
2.2 Place the lure
2.3 Defeat and tame the fiend
2.4 Return to Shaman Kortik
2.5 Talk to Gren
2.6 Begin the Rite of Union
2.7 Defeat the fiends
2.8 Speak with Varka And Gren


3 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Elaaden: A New World

Speak to Shaman Kortik near the bar in New Tuchanka on Elaaden. There will be a  marking Kortik.
Before leaving New Tuchanka, near Shaman Kortik at the bar area will be Vel and Urdnot Grot. Scan the Distilling Tanks above and behind the krogan for +10 .

Walkthrough[]
Enter a wild fiend habitat[]
Head to the navpoint  northwest of the Forward Station in the Languish region (directly west of New Tuchanka) to enter the wild fiend habitat.

Place the lure[]
Place the lure at the navpoint to attract the Fiend.

Defeat and tame the fiend[]
Three Wraiths attack which need to be defeated first and then the Fiend will show up.
Defeat the Fiend - in this case instead of dying the Fiend will be tamed.

Return to Shaman Kortik[]
Report back to Shaman Kortik in New Tuchanka.  Kortik says of the two rivaling krogans, Varka is up for the challenge, but Gren refuses to fight together with her. So Pathfinder Ryder gets tasked with talking to Gren about it.

Talk to Gren[]
Head to the area with the navpoint to speak with Gren. Nearby Gren, there is a set of Water Tanks that can be scanned for +10 . Speak with Gren and make him agree to take part in the Rite of Union. Bringing Nakmor Drack helps - he knows what to say. Gren suspects that Varka will shoot him as soon as the fiend is dead. So Gren only agrees to the Rite on the condition that you are there covering his back.
Anti-armor weapons and skills will be of great advantage for the upcoming fight. Three Fiends will be fought at the same time. Cobra RPGs can also make the battle easier.
Choose the "Go to Arena" conversation option to Begin the Rite of Union.

Begin the Rite of Union[]
The screen fades and Ryder, Gren, and Varka are now in a glowing orange cavern. Hostile Fiends are on the way.

Defeat the fiends[]
The fiend Ryder lured is, in fact, female - and two males followed her. Both Varka and Gren like that - now it will be a real fight. Take down the Fiends.

Speak with Varka And Gren[]
When the battle is over, speak with Varka and Gren. Both are enthusiastic about the fight, comment about how Ryder fought, and they seem to have made peace with each other. 
The mission then completes and you are returned to New Tuchanka.

Rewards[]
+530 XP



