




Sharjila

Region
Milky Way / Artemis Tau / Macedon





Planet View


Orbital Distance
0.667 AU


Orbital Period
1.0 Earth Year


Keplerian Ratio
0.297


Radius
5,693 km


Day Length
40.6 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
39.16 atm


Surface Temp
25 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.9 g


Mass
0.712 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Artemis Tau / Macedon System /  First planet

Contents

1 Description
2 Assignments
3 Points of Interest
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Lifeforms
6 Properties
7 Trivia


Description[]
WARNING: Level 1 Pressure Hazard
Sharjila has a very dense atmosphere of ammonia and oxygen. Its temperate surface is mainly composed of alumina with deposits of sulfur. Comm buoys in the system have recently logged a number of unregistered vessels operating nearby.
Sharjila has an extensive silicon-based, oxygen-breathing ecology. Heavily populated areas are covered with fine silica (silicon dioxide) dust, the respiratory by-product of the world's higher animal forms. High-speed surface winds, often laden with abrasive silica dust, present a hazard. In areas where the wind deposits a great deal of silica, footing can be treacherous. EVAs are discouraged.

Assignments[]
Assignment: UNC: Asari Diplomacy
Collection: UNC: Asari Writings: Matriarch's Writings ×1
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals:  Light Metal ×1 / Rare Element ×2

Points of Interest[]



Location

Appearance

Description


1

Initial

Stronghold (UNC: Asari Diplomacy)


2

Initial

Crashed probe (salvage Average Electronics)


3

Initial

Abandoned camp and asari capsule (UNC: Asari Writings) and crate up the hill to the north (salvage). South-east of the camp, there is an abandoned tent.
  
“It's not clear who lived here, but it appears to have been abandoned for some time. The container in the tent held, among other things, one of Matriarch Dilinaga's writings.”




4

Unmarked

The "song" associated with rachni can be heard here.


Mineral Deposits[]

Main article: UNC: Valuable Minerals


Location

Element

Class


1

Thorium

Rare


2

Uranium

Rare


3

Magnesium

Light


Lifeforms[]
Dahlia Dantius
Pirates
Pirate Snipers
Properties[]
Sharjila's soil has grasslike lifeforms that can thrive in high-pressure ammonia/oxygen environments. 
The local points of interest are mostly situated along cliffs and inclines, close to the bounds of the operational area. Driving from point to point should be a hassle-free affair, with only a few bumps to break the rolling monotony of the surface.

Trivia[]
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition, Sharjila's terrain now features 3D grass carpeting instead of plain dirt textures.
Sharjila does have a thick atmosphere but not enough in the way of greenhouse gasses. This distance and temperature, alongside Macedon's M3 main sequence luminosity of 0.01 suns, imply an albedo of "-57.5". These properties have to be mistaken.



