




Siano

Region
Milky Way / Pylos Nebula / Dirada





Planet View


Orbital Distance
12.9 AU


Orbital Period
26 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
3.176


Radius
4,925 km


Day Length
26 Earth Years


Atm. Pressure
Trace


Surface Temp
79 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.47 g


Mass
0.278 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Pylos Nebula / Dirada System /  First planet

Prerequisite: Star Chart from Baria Frontiers store (Mass Effect 2)

Prerequisite: Leviathan: Find Ann Bryson (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description

1.1 Mass Effect 2
1.2 Mass Effect 3


2 Mineral Deposits


Description[]
Mass Effect 2[]
Siano, named for an ancient asari philosopher known for being a contrarian, orbits Dirada at a retrograde. It is believed to be an object that fell into the system millions of years ago from parts unknown. The outermost of Dirada's two inner asteroid belts is thought to have been a small planetoid that was broken up by Siano's passage into the system.
Siano is formed of low-density rock, and is tidally locked to Dirada; the same hemisphere always faces the star. There is evidence that a complex of artificial structures once existed in the north of the sunward-facing hemisphere, but they have been badly degraded by millennia of heat and radiation. Several bunkers of radioactive waste, apparently byproducts of primitive fission plants, have been discovered on the far side.

Mass Effect 3[]
Siano, named for an ancient asari philosopher known for being a contrarian, orbits Dirada at a retrograde. It is believed to be an object that fell into the system millions of years ago from parts unknown. The outermost of Dirada's two asteroid belts is thought to have been a small planetoid that was broken up by Siano's passage into the system.
Siano is formed of low-density rock and is tidally locked to Dirada; the same hemisphere always faces the star. There is evidence that a complex of artificial structures once existed in the north of the sunward-facing hemisphere, but they have been badly degraded by millennia of heat and radiation. Several bunkers of radioactive waste, apparently byproducts of primitive fission plants, have been discovered on the far side. The Reapers appear to have ignored Siano, concentrating on systems with a higher population.

Mineral Deposits[]
Initial Scanner Result: Rich



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

Medium

5,000


Platinum

Low

4,700


Iridium

High

15,300


Element Zero

Low

3,500




