



The Silver Coast Casino is a casino located in the Citadel's Silversun Strip. It is owned by Elijah Khan.

Contents

1 Layout
2 Mass Effect 3
3 Games

3.1 Quasar
3.2 Roulette
3.3 Varren Racing


4 Bar
5 Missions
6 Trivia
7 References


Layout[]
The casino is divided into three floors. The lowest floor is simply an entrance stairway ascending to the main floor. The main floor holds the establishment's numerous games: Quasar booths, roulette tables, and varren racing booths. The Quasar games in particular are guarded by a krogan pit boss named Krud. Private booths and seating for patrons adorn the nooks of the level and there's a bar nearby for preparing the customers' drinks. The highest floor has more seating, another bar, and the casino's dance floor.
Surveillance cameras are installed on strategic locations, supplemented by vigilant guards. A public announcer periodically issues advisories to the casino's guests. There are three waterfalls in the area: two waterfalls next to the casino's upper entrances end in small pools with fish, and one on a wall prior to the hallway leading to Khan's office. They have a strict prohibition against touching, and if such behavior persists the public announcer claims they're hanar urinals.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3[]
In order to solve the mystery behind the identity theft operation on Commander Shepard, the Spectre and their team infiltrate a black-tie fundraiser being held at the casino to gain an audience with Khan, a weapons dealer holed up inside his secure office in the building. With Maya Brooks sneaking through the casino's vents and Shepard covertly distracting or disabling surveillance systems in the way, the team manage to reach Khan in his office/panic room, only to find him dead. A Mysterious Figure shows up on Khan's viewscreen to take responsibility and threaten Shepard however, and the team deduce the figure's next moves through clues left in Khan's computer.
Sometime after these events have been dealt with, Kasumi Goto may be found staging a heist in the casino, provided she stuck around after the incident with Jondum Bau and Zymandis. Shepard can inspect a "suspicious device" installed on a corner near the varren racing games, which leads to a short impromptu reunion where Shepard either lets her be or convinces her to call it off. Some of Shepard's past and present crew members can also be met at the establishment upon acknowledgement of their invitations.

Games[]
The following interactive casino games can be found in this area:

Quasar[]
Main article: Quasar



Quasar - How to Play

-Select the amount you wish to start the game.
-The game starts you off with 1-5 points.
-You may then "hit" for either 1-8 or 4-7 points any number of times.
-The goal is to get as close as possible to 20 points without going over.
-Select your current payout to end the game.

Payouts:
0-14: Nothing
15: 25% of bet
16: 50% of bet
17: 100% of bet
18: 125% of bet
19: 150% of bet
20: 200% of bet

21+: Nothing


Roulette[]



Roulette - How to Play

-To start the game, place chips on one of the following bets:
 1) A single number (00,01,02... up to 20)
 2) A range of numbers (01-10 or 11-20)
 3) Red numbers (Red Rectangle)
 4) Black numbers (Black Rectangle)

-Single numbers return the highest payouts.
-Ranged bets (0-10 / 11-20 / Red / Black) return the lowest payouts.
-You may place up to three bets on the roulette table, at which point the wheel spins.
-You can place more than one chip on the same bet.
-Bets cannot be taken back once placed.

Price to Play:

-500 Credits per Chip


Varren Racing[]
Broadcast live from Tuchanka.




Varren Racing - How to Play

-Select one of the four varren to place your bet.
-IF the selected varren wins the race, you receive a payout based on that varren's odds of winning.

-Varren with a lower chance of winning give higher payouts.


Bar[]
The party supplies for Citadel: Party can be purchased here for 100 credits.
Garrus Vakarian can be met here after he sends Shepard an invitation.
Ashley Williams can be met here after she sends Shepard an invitation.
There is also an option to wait at the bar for Joker, and later, Wrex. Unlike the other meetings with squad members, the location for the meetings with Joker and Wrex does not appear on the map. To meet them, go to the same bar where you purchase the party supplies.
Missions[]
Mission: Citadel: Party
Mission: Silver Coast Casino: Infiltration
Trivia[]
The Chora's Den dancing music in the first Mass Effect returns as the casino's dancing floor music.
According to level developer Jos Hendriks, the varren racing minigame had plans for a plot involving the racer C-Sec Biscuit winning a 100:1 payout after losing 50 times.[1]
References[]

↑ https://twitter.com/Sjosz/status/398534953257795585




Mass Effect 3 Merchants


Presidium Commons

Aegohr Munitions • Cipritine Armory • Elkoss Combine Arsenal Supplies • Kanala Exports • Kassa Fabrication • Nos Astra Sporting Goods


Docks: Holding Area

Batarian State Arms


Huerta Memorial Hospital

Sirta Supplies


Citadel Embassies

Spectre Requisitions


Aria's Bunker

Harrot's Emporium


Silversun Strip

Home Spun




