


Site 2: Resilience is the second Andromeda Initiative outpost on Eos. According to Suvi Anwar, it was supposed to be a second chance to start colonization efforts after the failure of Site 1: Promise but almost immediately it came under kett attack. It is located only a few dozen meters south of Site 1, and it is adjacent to The Golden Wastes on most sides.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Most colonists were slaughtered in the kett attack. A few managed to evacuate, yet there are indications that there are some who may have been taken by the kett.
The colonists of Site 2 created a secret project in the hopes that it would help them against the kett: Special Project Sigma, which was never finished before the attack. Pathfinder Ryder can piece together its components and receive nonspecific research progress on Initiative armor or weapons.
Resilience remains abandoned and unclaimed even after the revitalization of Eos and the establishment of Prodromos. If Ryder and Jaal Ama Darav uncover a Roekaar plot to attack Prodromos, the Pathfinder team manipulate the Roekaar into landing dropships on Resilience instead of Prodromos, resulting in a firefight that ends in the angaran extremists' defeat.

Contents

1 Layout
2 Former Personnel
3 Missions
4 Terminals


Layout[]
The site consists of two levels surrounded by small radiation shield bubbles located on the edge of an expansive lake. The upper level contains just one building which is inaccessible but has a few scannable items and a crate.
The lower level closest to the lake is a jumbled mess owing to the kett attack. Leftovers of the raid such as kett kinetic barriers and Initiative corpses are scattered about. Among the nooks and crannies of the territory are various minerals, especially fluorite, containers of loot, and scannable objects. There are two buildings and a landing pad on the lower level.

Former Personnel[]
Balia Halex - Security Officer, deceased
Grace Lito - Chief Engineer
Rufus Theroux - Mayor, missing
Gordanus Trenitus - deceased
Porter M. West - deceased
Thysa Ylar - deceased
Missions[]



Allies and Relationships
Jaal Ama Darav: Friend or Foe? II


Heleus Assignments
Doesn't Add Up
The Secret Project


Additional Tasks
Task: Naming the Dead

Terminals[]
On the second floor of the building labeled S7 (the main building):




OUTGOING MESSAGE: Happy birthday!
Emily,

How does it feel to be 28? I'm sorry I can't be with you, but I hope you live it up with your friends on the Nexus. Go wild!

Did you get my gift? I built the kennel especially for him. I know he can't replace Buster, but they say if you raise an adhi from a pup, it'll bond to you for life. Give him a good name for me--and talk me up so he knows I'm on your good side.

I hope you have a birthday as amazing as you are. Next year, we'll celebrate together. You, me, and the lil' scrapper. I love you!


-Astor





Transfer Request: Denied
Remitus--

I received your request. I apologize, but a transfer isn't possible at this time. I understand your sister was on the turian ark and that you'd like to be out there looking for her. But with no contact from Natanus since our departure from the Milky Way, your efforts would be wasted. The Initiative needs you here on Eos, researching methods to sustain viability. Your work is important for us all. You'll have to be patient and wait for word of Natanus to surface.


--Addison





Just checking in
Hey, kiddo.

Hope everything's going okay down there. Rumors are spreading about the unfriendly locals, but I know it's nothing you can't handle.

Just wanted you to know the thing we talked about last week is happening. Sloane gave the sign tonight. We're doing it tomorrow. If it all goes as planned, I'm bringing you back here to celebrate. If not, well it's been fun. No regrets, right?

Stay safe out there. Talk to you soon.


--Colt





