









Sjaan
Engineer

Race
Angara


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Sjaan is an engineer "of sorts" working for Annea at The Paradise on Elaaden. He designed the merchant's water filtration systems and keeps them from breaking down in the oppressive heat. He's an observant fellow who quickly discerns Pathfinder Ryder's team aren't locals by the look of their well-maintained equipment, and one of the reasons Annea hired him is he knows how to ingratiate himself.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Sjaan used to live on Kadara, where he designed defense systems for the settlements. He incurred some debts he couldn't repay, so in desperation he fled to Elaaden. His specialty making nighttime traps was useless to the perpetual daylight of the world, but fortunately he gained employment and a place to stay under Annea.
His job takes him back and forth from the Paradise to New Tuchanka to keep the water tanks running. He sometimes conducts business with the flophouse for parts, as the usually murderous scavengers there respect him. Sjaan doesn't find life on Elaaden bad, but he's looking for something more exciting.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
If talked to, Sjaan can warn the Pathfinder of Annea's mercurial mood when dealing with humans. He'd seen her deny water to them for no good reason. All of her interactions with humans so far had been with exiles and Sjaan even agrees it's enough to make anyone hostile to outsiders, but he doesn't like seeing people suffer.

On hearing Sjaan wants to make a difference again, Ryder can suggest that the Resistance on Voeld is in need of recruits. He's flattered, but he doubts the guerillas will take a lowlife like him. If Jaal Ama Darav is around, his fellow angaran convinces him that Evfra de Tershaav doesn't turn away anyone who wants to fight. Ryder can either lean on Jaal's reputation as a Resistance hero or remind him he's a good engineer under harsh conditions - either way, Sjaan muses a change of scenery is in order and agrees to help.
If he joins the Resistance, Sjaan packs up from Elaaden and subsequently can be found at the Resistance camp on Voeld. The camp's defense grid is on the verge of breaking down, but fortunately the engineer is on the case.




