









Skeot

Race
Angara


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Skeot is an agitated angara on Hjara Station. 







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




When Skeot learned that his famed Resistance uncle Niilj was captured by the kett, he appealed for anyone who can help bring him back. Nobody on Hjara was available, and Commander Anjik Do Xeel had no men to spare due to recent combat losses. Corresponding with his mother Buxil to persuade Anjik on his behalf, he warned her he'll rescue Niilj himself if nobody did. 
The reason why he's so strident in this issue is because his father was also imprisoned in a labor camp and killed by the kett for no apparent reason. He doesn't want condolences, he only doesn't want to lose more family members.
Pathfinder Ryder can overhear Skeot loudly arguing with a woman to take immediate action liberating their mutual uncle. He takes the woman's cautiousness as a sign she's willing to give up, as he fears Niilj could be dead or worse if they waste more time formulating plans.
Other people have been telling Skeot not to trust the Pathfinder, but he's willing to ignore that and flatter Ryder if the alien fights kett, figuring anyone who fights enemies who kidnap their loved ones had to be better. Once talked to, Skeot gives Ryder a navpoint to the Northern Holding Site where Niilj is known to be imprisoned.
Skeot has limited intel on the labor camp his uncle is in, and assumes it's heavily guarded like with similar facilities. Similarly, mission specifics of Niilj's capture weren't divulged to him. Skeot never thought his highly-experienced fighter of an uncle would be taken. 
Niilj can be rescued with or without Skeot's assistance. In either case, Skeot personally hears from him about the Pathfinder's role saving him and his team. When Ryder talks to Skeot afterward he tells the Pathfinder the angara were inured to people not coming back, and with Ryder's deeds they have changed everything.
The Moshae's rescue also influences Skeot's first impressions on the Pathfinder, and if Ryder also credits the Resistance's part Skeot notes with approval that according to his grandmother shared combat experience makes family even if not related by blood.

Trivia[]
Even after Niilj has been freed Skeot can still be overheard demanding for his rescue.



