









Sloane Kelly
Outcast Leader

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Voice Actor
Indira Varma


Appearances
Mass Effect: AndromedaMass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising



“The Initiative was just another empty promise. The only person I can count on to change things is me.”
Sloane Kelly is the leader of the Outcasts, the criminal faction controlling Kadara Port. 

Contents

1 Background
2 Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising
3 Mass Effect: Andromeda

3.1 Behind Enemy Lines
3.2 Night on the Town
3.3 High Noon
3.4 Consolidating Kadara and Beyond


4 Trivia







“Same shit. Different galaxy.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising follow.









“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Sloane served in the Alliance, participating in the Skyllian Blitz, but was discharged after punching a superior officer for "bureaucratic bullshit." Although some of the Initiative's senior leadership had concerns about Sloane's temper, Jien Garson was impressed by her passion, frank attitude, and resourcefulness. 
Sloane Kelly was later employed by the Andromeda Initiative as head of Nexus security. During the Nexus uprising, Sloane and the new Initiative Director, Jarun Tann, had a falling out. Sloane sympathized with the rebellion and was vehemently against using the krogan against the mutineers; thus Sloane took it personally when the Director went behind her back to make a deal with Clan Nakmor in order to violently put down the insurgents while she was negotiating with them. 
Upon learning of the Director's intervention, Sloane switched sides and joined the rebellion. The rebellion soon crumbled after the assassination of its leader, Calix Corvannis, and Sloane was left to represent the grievances of the remnant mutineers. 
Director Tann gave Sloane and the rebels the ultimatum of either going back into cryostasis or be exiled to the hostile planets. Sloane along with the other mutineers chose exile. Eventually a large portion of these exiled Outlaws found the planet Kadara, and Sloane amassed a group of followers from the exiles called the Outcasts and drove out the local kett forces from Kadara Port. Ever since then, the Outcasts became the ruling power in Kadara and began raiding the Nexus' convoys, transports, and scout teams for supplies and equipment.

Mass Effect Andromeda: Nexus Uprising[]
This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
Mass Effect: Andromeda[]

While attempting to locate the Archon's flagship, Pathfinder Ryder meets with Sloane in Outcast Headquarters, hoping to secure the release of Angaran Resistance traitor Vehn Terev for his intel. Sloane refuses to release him since his death is required to appease the local angara. However, she's willing to compromise by allowing Ryder to interrogate Vehn within the premises unless the Pathfinder goes about the request in a manner she deems disrespectful, such as ignoring her authority or calling out the way she runs the port.
Sloane's authority over Kadara Port has been called into question by many of its inhabitants. Sloane rules Kadara Port with an iron fist and she doesn't shy away from shows of force. Captive hostiles like the kett are publicly executed and dissidents have had their heads displayed on spikes as grisly warnings to their enemies. The local angara accept her rule since Sloane liberated them from the kett and are also mollified with parties and empty gestures. Although Sloane makes a show of being pro-angaran, in truth she prioritizes the Outcasts. By the time Ryder arrives, a new faction known as the Collective has already emerged to disrupt her operations and overthrow her.

Behind Enemy Lines[]
Sloane leaves Kadara Port with her second in command Kaetus and goes to Draullir to finish off the last of the kett stragglers the Outcasts drove out, provided Ryder tracks the aliens beforehand. Sloane doesn't want someone else fighting her battles, though she sees nothing wrong with the Pathfinder doing the legwork as that's what lapdogs are supposed to do. Kaetus went behind her back to give Ryder the mission, and Sloane plans to confront him about it once it's over.
Kaetus is worried Sloane's absence from the port might give the Collective ideas, though she wants him to relax a little. Before they finish the argument, the kett are alerted to their presence, resulting in a firefight that leaves no kett standing. Following the skirmish, she and Kaetus stay on the cave for a while to dispose of the bodies, to maintain the official stance that all kett were defeated by Sloane when she won the port.

Night on the Town[]

Sloane periodically hosts social gatherings at Outcast HQ, though she deems them necessary evils of governance. She sees the Pathfinder's presence at one of her parties as a reminder to tell Kaetus to vet the guest list more thoroughly next time. She allows Ryder to freeload on the refreshments like everyone else, provided they stay out of trouble.
If Ryder tests Umi Henon's experimental drink, they become inebriated enough to sit on Sloane's chair when the Outcast queen briefly leaves. Sloane is not amused when she returns to see the Pathfinder on her throne, though she wordlessly regains possession of it by the time Ryder wakes up from a brief blackout.

High Noon[]
The Collective become a grave concern for Sloane when she learns they turned some of her men and used them to beat up Kaetus. They use him to send a message: the Charlatan wants to meet in order to settle things once and for all. 
Since Sloane's Outcasts were compromised, Ryder is the only person she could trust to act as her back-up in the duel, which takes place in one of the secluded caves in Draullir. The duel will decide who controls Kadara Port and Ryder can choose to either save Sloane from being assassinated by a Collective sniper or let her die.


If Ryder does nothing, Sloane is shot in the back and lives only long enough to realize the Charlatan set her up. Her corpse is carried away, and in the aftermath Kaetus swears to avenge her from his holding cell.
Should Ryder choose to save Sloane, she retaliates by shooting the Charlatan's pistol from his hand. She screams for Ryder to kill the Charlatan, but he manages to escape in a transport, earning a rebuke from Sloane whether the Collective leader was injured or not.

Consolidating Kadara and Beyond[]
With Sloane's survival assured, the Outcasts' rule on Kadara Port is reinforced and she institutes a purge of known Collective sympathizers. She allows the Initiative to settle an outpost on Kadara for the sake of the Pathfinder, stating that while she will never trust the Initiative, Ryder is "out of the doghouse", on the condition that the outpost pays a regular protection fee. She promises to help Ryder when the time comes, and later on she assists in the final battle for Meridian against the Archon.
Several weeks after the Archon's defeat, Sloane visits Port Meridian but doesn't partake in the ongoing festivities. She warns Ryder not to expect pats on the back from her. If Ryder jokingly asks for a hug, Sloane calls her insufferable, but one who gets results. Ryder deems it dangerously close to a pat on the back, though the Outcast leader denies it. If Ryder praises her assist on Meridian though, Sloane remarks she takes her alliances seriously, aside from enjoying kicking kett ass. Ryder has the same interest, though Sloane claims that's where the similarities between them begin and end. Either way she rebuffs further attempts at conversation as there are plenty more people around who actually want to talk to the Pathfinder.

Trivia[]
Sloane's voice actress, Indira Varma, also provides the voice for Moshae Sjefa. In the Dragon Age universe, Varma voices Vivienne.



