


Smash is a biotic power in Mass Effect 3's multiplayer mode. 

Power Ranks[]
Rank 1: Smash[]
Drive the lash into the ground to cause area-of-effect damage and devastating direct damage.

Recharge Time: 8 sec
Damage: 550
Force: 450 N
Radius: 1.50 m


Rank 2: Recharge Speed[]
Increase recharge speed by 25%.

Recharge Time: 6.40 sec
Damage: 550
Force: 450 N
Radius: 1.50 m


Rank 3: Force & Damage[]
Increase force and damage by 20%.

Recharge Time: 6.40 sec
Damage: 660
Force: 540 N
Radius: 1.50 m


Rank 4: Biotic Combo/Electrical Damage[]



Biotic Combo
Add a biotic effect to a target that can be detonated.Increase damage by 30%.

Recharge Time: 6.40 sec
Damage: 825
Force: 675 N
Radius: 1.50 m


Electrical Damage
Add an electrical effect to a target than can be detonated.Increase damage by an additional 50% for 7.50 seconds.




Rank 5: Force & Damage/Recharge Speed[]



Force & Damage
Increase force and damage by 40%.

Recharge Time: 6.40 sec
Damage: 1045 (Biotic Combo), 880 (Electrical Damage)
Force: 855 N (Biotic Combo), 720 N (Electrical Damage)
Radius: 1.50 m


Recharge Speed
Increase recharge speed by 40%.

Recharge Time: 4.84 sec
Damage: 825 (Biotic Combo), 660 (Electrical Damage)
Force: 675 N (Biotic Combo), 540 N (Electrical Damage)
Radius: 1.50 m



Rank 6: Armor Damage/Impact Radius[]



Armor Damage
Increase effectiveness against armor and barriers by 75%.



Impact Radius
Increase radius by 50%.Increase the number of targets hit by 1.

Recharge Time: 6.40 sec (Force & Damage), 4.84 sec (Recharge Speed)
Damage: 1045 (Biotic Combo), 880 (Electrical Damage) [Force & Damage], 825 (Biotic Combo), 660 (Electrical Damage) [Recharge Speed]
Force: 855 N (Biotic Combo), 720 N (Electrical Damage) [Force & Damage], 675 N (Biotic Combo), 540 N (Electrical Damage) [Recharge Speed]
Radius: 2.25 m



Player Notes[]
Mechanics
Smash deals 1.5x damage to all forms of protection.[1]
Smash reliably staggers all but the largest enemies.
Most unprotected enemies hit by Smash that aren't immediately killed will be tossed into the air where they float downwards in a slow arcing trajectory.
Unlike most powers that can hit a maximum of 3 enemies, Smash only can hit 2 enemies unless the rank 6 "Impact Radius" evolution is chosen.
Like Shockwave, Smash is able to travel and hit enemies through walls and cover. Unlike Shockwave, which follows a straight-line path parallel to the ground, Smash can be aimed above and below the player, hitting enemies within reach.
While the rank 4 Biotic Combo evolution states only a damage increase of 30%, the force is also increased by the same amount. This is not reflected in the text displayed.[2]
Taking the rank 4 Electrical Damage evolution will still allow Smash to detonate biotic primers for Biotic Explosions.
The biotic effect left by the Biotic Combo evolution has no visual cue, but lasts several seconds on any target without restriction.
The cooldown for Smash does not start until one second into the power (while the whips are in the "spinning" animation). Before this, it is possible to perform a roll or melee and prevent Smash from occurring. It is also possible to perform a heavy melee immediately after a Smash for added area-of-effect damage.
The Smash attack utilized by the player is faster than the Smash used by Cerberus Dragoons. Should the player and a Dragoon activate the attack at the same time, the player will always strike first.
Strategies
Smash's attack power is impressive, enough to kill most unprotected enemies and devastate shielded and armored enemies with one cast.
It is a good idea to avoid performing Smash while taking fire or within close range of enemies with instant-kill moves because the animation can be rather long, and the ability grants no invincibility during its animation. However, one interesting aspect of Smash is that the player can continue to move while casting it, albeit at very reduced speed. This can be used to keep some distance from dangerous enemies.
When evolved to do maximum damage to one target, Smash is very effective against harder enemies.
It is possible to perform a Smash-Dodge cancel that still causes damage. The timing for it requires the player to dodge just as the whips are about to be swung downwards. By doing this, it is possible to "dance" around larger targets and still damage them.
Smash can also be used relatively safely behind waist-high cover, especially against targets on a platform below you.
Availability[]
Single-player: N/A
Multiplayer: Project Phoenix Adept, Project Phoenix Vanguard
References[]

↑ https://web.archive.org/web/20160318000954/forum.bioware.com/topic/277136-gameplay-data-and-mechanics/

↑ http://me3tweaks.com/permanent/smashrank4asource-me3wiki.png




Mass Effect 3 Powers


Ammo

Armor-Piercing Ammo • Cryo Ammo • Disruptor Ammo • Incendiary Ammo • Warp Ammo


Biotic

Annihilation Field • Barrier • Biotic Focus • Biotic Hammer • Biotic Orbs • Biotic Protector • Biotic Slash • Biotic Sphere • Charge • Cluster Grenade • Dark Channel • Dark Sphere • Dominate • Flare • Lash • Lift Grenade • Nova • Poison Strike • Pull • Reave • Seeker Swarm • Shockwave • Singularity • Slam • Smash • Stasis • Throw • Warp • Warp Ammo


Combat

Adrenaline Rush • Arc Grenade • Ballistic Blades • Blade Armor • Bloodlust • Cain Trip Mine • Carnage • Concussive Shot • Devastator Mode • Fortification • Frag Grenade • Hawk Missile Launcher • Inferno Grenade • Marksman • Multi-Frag Grenade • Nightshade Blades • Phase Disruptor • Proximity Mine • Recon Mine • Repair Matrix • Sticky Grenade • Stimulant Pack


Tech

Armor-Piercing Arrows • Combat Drone • Concussive Arrows • Cryo Blast • Decoy • Defense Drone • Defense Matrix • Electric Slash • Electrical Hammer • Energy Drain • Flamer • Geth Turret • Havoc Strike • Hex Shield • Homing Grenade • Hunter Mode • Incinerate • Overload • Sabotage • Sentry Turret • Shadow Strike • Shield Boost • Siege Pulse • Snap Freeze • Submission Net • Supply Pylon • Tactical Cloak • Tactical Scan • Tech Armor


Fitness

Fitness (Adept) • Fitness (Engineer) • Fitness (Infiltrator) • Fitness (Sentinel) • Fitness (Soldier) • Fitness (Vanguard)


Fitness (multiplayer)

Advanced Hardware • Ancient Warrior • Fitness Module • Hardened Platform • Omni-Bow Mastery • Rage • Shield Mastery • Sword Mastery • T5-V Internal Systems • Venom Gauntlets • Warlord Rage


Player Class

Assault Mastery • Biotic Mastery • Combat Mastery • Offensive Mastery • Operational Mastery • Tech Mastery


Player Class (multiplayer)

Alliance Training • Armiger Legion • Asari Huntress • Asari Justicar • Asari Valkyrie • Batarian Enforcer • Drell Assassin • Elite Mercenary • Geth Juggernaut • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Krogan Warlord • N7 Demolisher • N7 Fury • N7 Paladin • N7 Shadow • N7 Slayer • Networked AI • Phoenix Training • Quarian Defender • Salarian Operative • T5-V Battlesuit • Turian Veteran • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient • Volus Training • Vorcha Resilience


Squadmate Class

Alliance Admiral • Alliance Officer • Arms Master • Asari Justicar • Biotic Boss • Cerberus Officer • Cerberus Operative • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Master Thief • Mercenary Veteran • Pure Biotic • Quarian Machinist • Subject Zero • Turian Huntress • Turian Rebel • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient




