









Sohkaa Esof
Aya Cargo Merchant

Race
Angara


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Sohkaa Esof is a merchant that runs cargo between Aya and other worlds in Heleus.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Upon meeting Pathfinder Ryder, he repeats the word, 'trade', in different pronunciations, wondering whether the Initiative exchange in goods and services. When he asks about how the Initiative's economy works, Ryder can explain the concept of credits to the angara. He compares it to the kett's system, noting they offered gifts or made odd bargains instead of trading. If Ryder instead declares they have credits but little to spend on, Sohkaa indicates he may be amenable for business. Either way, Sohkka is interested and inquires what the Initiative can offer.
If Ryder opens negotiations and asks what he wants, Sohkaa has eyes for the Tempest. The Pathfinder quickly declares it isn't for sale, and Sohkaa just shrugs it was worth a try. If Ryder offers to set up a formal trade agreement otherwise, Sohkaa deems it complicated and passes on it.
To offer Ryder a chance to prove that they are a friend to the angara, Sohkaa requests their assistance. One of his suppliers, Keldo, had recently gone missing on Voeld. The merchant instructs Ryder to locate him and his needed supplies.
If Ryder returns to Aya with the supplies and reports Keldo's death, Sohkaa is not surprised as he knew his friend was dead. If Ryder notes on his lack of empathy, Sohkaa replies that he was already prepared for Keldo's death, and that with Ryder's help his murderers are dead and the supplies are back in the hands of his people. The mission he gave Ryder was a test from Evfra to see how the Pathfinder handled themselves. Upon completing the mission the merchant opens up his wares to Ryder, accepting credits.



Mass Effect: Andromeda Merchants


Aya

Merivaas • Oniijev • Quartermaster Istaal • Sohkaa Esof • Yveth


Elaaden

Annea • Barruk • Blood Threshers Manager • Boomerang • Team Ryncol Manager


Eos

Clancy Arquist • Prodromos merchant • Techiix merchant


Havarl

Cody Holdren


Kadara

Armor merchant • Arms Dealer / Relia Ythos • Black Market Dealer • Mods Merchant • Thrasia


Nexus

Armor merchant (Common Area) • Arms merchant (near holding cells) • Arms merchant (Common Area) • General merchant (Common Area) • Vehicle merchant (Common Area)


Port Meridian

Jezra's Acquisitions • Supply by Cal


Voeld

Bennett Kahele • Jackson Cross • Merchant (Techiix)  • Merchant (Hjara Station)




