




Solcrum

Region
Milky Way / Armstrong Nebula / Grissom / Notanban





Moon View


Orbital Distance
10,367,883 km


Orbital Period
0.6 Earth Years


Radius
4,534 km


Day Length
0.6 Earth Years


Atm. Pressure
0.00 atm


Surface Temp
351 °C


Surface Gravity
0.8 g


Mass
0.401 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Armstrong Nebula / Grissom System / Notanban

Prerequisite: UNC: Geth Incursions (Mass Effect)

Contents

1 Description
2 Assignments
3 Points of Interest
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Lifeforms
6 Properties
7 Trivia


Description[]
WARNING: Level 1 Heat Hazard
Solcrum is the largest moon of the gas giant Notanban. It has a trace atmosphere of krypton and xenon. The crust is composed of various metals with deposits of sodium. As with every body in the solar system, the surface is scorching hot and thoroughly irradiated by the blue giant Grissom. Surface excursions without proper protective gear are certain to prove fatal.
On approach to Notanban, Normandy's passive sensor array intercepted a fragmentary coded transmission from the surface of Solcrum. Attempts to decrypt the message were fruitless; it does not appear to be in any software coding language used by the Citadel races.

Assignments[]
Assignment: UNC: Geth Incursions
Collection: UNC: Asari Writings: Matriarch's Writings ×1
Survey: UNC: Valuable Minerals:  Light Metal ×1 / Rare Element ×2
Points of Interest[]



Location

Appearance

Description


1

Initial

Geth Headquarters (UNC: Geth Incursions)


2

Initial

Asari capsule (UNC: Asari Writings)
“There were several artifacts stored here, all worthless except for one of Matriarch Dilinaga's writings.  Whether it was uncovered at this dig site or somewhere else is unclear.”




3

Initial

Crashed probe (salvage requires medium Electronics.)


Mineral Deposits[]

Main article: UNC: Valuable Minerals


Location

Element

Class


1

Thorium

Rare


2

Uranium

Rare


3

Magnesium

Light


Lifeforms[]
Geth Colossus
Geth Destroyer
Geth Juggernaut
Geth Rocket Trooper
Geth Stalker
Geth Sapper
Properties[]
Notanban is visible in the sky to the north while Grissom lies prominent to the west. As with several worlds in the Armstrong Nebula, Solcrum features a moderate wind that has a noticeable but not debilitating effect on visibility.
Solcrum's operational area is on rugged terrain, and most of its points of interest lie at the top or bottom of hills. While the Mako likely won't be scaling mountain-sized cliffs, it is still recommended to stick to what flat terrain there is when traversing the moon.

Trivia[]
The Grissom star is placed just outside the operational area to effect the illusion of a looming blue giant on the horizon. However, there is another larger layer of terrain below Solcrum's operational area, hence from certain vantage points within legal game bounds there appears to be a mountain range that appears to go behind the star.
Although the geth base's exterior is usually reserved for facilities buried underground, the interior layout is more commonly used for facilities built on the surface.



