






This article is about the class in Mass Effect, Mass Effect 2, Mass Effect 3, and Mass Effect: Andromeda. For other uses, see Soldier (disambiguation).

Contents

1 Mass Effect

1.1 Talents
1.2 Class Talent


2 Mass Effect 2

2.1 Weapons Training
2.2 Powers


3 Mass Effect 3

3.1 Powers
3.2 Weight Capacity


4 Mass Effect: Andromeda
5 See Also


Mass Effect[]
The Soldier is a tough warrior, able to deal with a range of combat situations. The Soldier gets improved health, has the widest selection of weapons, and is eventually able to wear heavy armor. Gameplay focus is on getting into the thick of the fight, picking the right weapon for tactical situations, and outlasting opponents. Ashley Williams and Richard L. Jenkins, as well as the default Commander Shepard all have this class. A Soldier Shepard can further specialize into Commando or Shock Trooper giving them access to levels 7 - 12 of the class talent (see below).
Soldiers are the full spectrum warrior of the squad whose talents focus on improving durability and damage. They may specialize in any weapon they choose and are the only class to have access to the Assault Rifles talent. Soldiers begin with medium armor and are also the only class that may upgrade to heavy armor. Their major weaknesses are their complete lack of biotic and tech abilities, relying on squadmates to pick up the slack in those areas.

Talents[]
See also: Talents#Class Specific





Class: Soldier


 Pistols




 Shotguns

Unlocked at Pistols 4


 Assault Rifles




 Sniper Rifles

Unlocked at Assault Rifles 7


 Combat Armor




 First Aid

Unlocked at Combat Armor 6


 Assault Training




 Fitness

Unlocked at Assault Training 5








Class Talent[]
Front-line warriors are trained to withstand the physical punishment that comes with combat.
Increases health
Allows limited health regeneration


Increases health by 4%. Regenerates 3 health per second.
Increases health by 6%. Regenerates 3.5 health per second.
Increases health by 8%. Regenerates 4 health per second.
Increases health by 10%. Regenerates 4.5 health per second.
Increases health by 12%. Regenerates 5 health per second.
Increases health by 14%. Regenerates 5.5 health per second.
Mass Effect 2[]
Soldiers are pure combat specialists. No one is tougher or more effective at taking down enemies with gunfire. Soldiers have the most thorough weapons training and can use all special ammo types. High-level operatives are outfitted with ocular synaptic processors that allow them to focus on targets with lethal accuracy.
Weapons Training[]
Assault Rifles
Heavy Pistols
Shotguns
Sniper Rifles
Heavy Weapons
Powers[]





Class: Soldier


 Adrenaline Rush




 Concussive Shot

Unlocked at Adrenaline Rush 2


 Disruptor Ammo




 Incendiary Ammo

Unlocked at Disruptor Ammo 2


 Cryo Ammo

Unlocked at Incendiary Ammo 2


 Combat Mastery










Mass Effect 3[]
Soldiers are pure combat specialists: no one is tougher or more suited to taking down enemies with barrages of gunfire. Soldiers have thorough weapons training and can use all special ammo types as well as grenades. High-level operatives are outfitted with ocular synaptic processors that allow them to focus on targets with lethal accuracy.

Powers[]





Class: Soldier


 Adrenaline Rush




 Concussive Shot

Unlocked at Level 3


 Frag Grenade

Unlocked at Level 6


 Incendiary Ammo




 Disruptor Ammo

Unlocked at Level 3


 Cryo Ammo

Unlocked at Level 6


 Combat Mastery




 Fitness

Unlocked at Level 3








Weight Capacity[]
See also: Weight Capacity
The Soldier has the highest potential weight capacity of any class in Mass Effect 3, with a weight capacity bonus of 20 at Level 1 of Combat Mastery, increasing to 50 at Level 2. A maximum capacity bonus of 100 is achievable by choosing the 'Weight Capacity' upgrade at Level 6 of Combat Mastery.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]

Main article: Profiles
Mass Effect: Andromeda no longer uses the class system of a locked in character "class" chosen at the beginning of gameplay but uses flexible Profiles instead. 
Pathfinder Ryder has the ability to change profiles at anytime (including during combat). This allows a vastly larger amount of customization than seen in prior Mass Effect games.
The Soldier profile is one of seven profiles available to Ryder.
Soldiers are pure combat specialists. No one is tougher or more effective at taking down enemies with gunfire.
This profile optimizes Ryder's mind and body for superior mastery of his/her armor and weapons.
Bonus power - MARKSMAN'S FOCUS: Grants an escalating damage bonus for every target killed in a short time.

See Also[]
Commando
Shock Trooper
Soldier Guide
Soldier Guide (Mass Effect 2)
Soldier Guide (Mass Effect 3)




Classes




Soldier • Engineer • Adept • Infiltrator • Vanguard • Sentinel



Mass Effect Talents


Biotic

Barrier • Lift • Singularity • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Assault Rifles • Pistols • Shotguns • Sniper Rifles • Assault Training • Fitness • Basic Armor • Combat Armor • Tactical Armor


Tech

Damping • Decryption • Electronics • First Aid • Hacking • Medicine


Class

Adept • Asari Scientist • Engineer • Infiltrator • Krogan Battlemaster • Quarian Machinist • Sentinel • Soldier • Turian Agent • Vanguard


Player only

Charm • Intimidate • Spectre Training




