


While exploring Kadara you found a settlement littered with dead angara.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Search for clues to angaran deaths
2.2 Search Charybdis Point for evidence
2.3 Defeat the exiles responsible


3 Rewards


Acquisition[]
The mission starts automatically when you travel along the path leading to the northwestern Kurinth's Valley region and get close to the first building. Two navpoints  will be added inside the nearby buildings.

Walkthrough[]
Search for clues to angaran deaths[]
Scanning the bodies inside the first building shows that the cause of death was the drinking of unfiltered water containing sulfuric acid. That's strange, because the angarans have lived a long time on this planet and know better than to do that. SAM suggests investigating the water supply.
A datapad in the same building indicates that the angarans were selling food and water.




Menu
Food and water in exchange for credits, salvage, whatever you have. Items at the top cost more than those at the bottom

- Filtered water
- Adhi meat (fresh)
- Kaerkyn shell soup
- Taurg flank steak
- Drall bits

- Adhi meat (semi-fresh)


One of the items to scan is an encrypted datapad that has logs from one of the angarans. The Outlaws tried to figure out how to build their own water filters and they were caught sneaking around the angaran filters. Some outlaws have set up some shacks to the south calling it Charybdis Point. The outlaws showed up demanding the angarans hand over the water filters but the angarans were able to drive them off.
There is a container in the building with the encrypted datapad.
In the other building, scanning the water filters is the other item that reveals that someone has tampered with the quality meter and filters just enough to poison the angarans slowly over time. The obvious suspects are the outlaws at Charybdis Point.
Scanning the Filtration Equipment awards +10 .
There are several datapads in the buildings that shed light on what has happened.
On the countertop is a datapad.




Personal Log: Voltyr 
New entry: Everything hurts. I've thrown up so much, I fear my stomach has flipped inside out.

Even Skylaar, the strongest of us, looks like death.


END LOG


In room on the upper floor of this building is an Angaran Integrated Tech Node that can be scanned for +100 . There are two datapads in the room on the upper floor:




Personal Log: Kariina
New entry: The aliens arrive daily now. Starving. Filthy. The way they look at us... I begged Skylaar to show them mercy and not charge them for food. But he wouldn't listen.

I have a terrible feeling about this.


END LOG







Free Land For All
Any resident of Kadara who wants their own piece of land is welcome to have it. The badlands are free for the taking and I encourage settlement. Our best chance for survival is developing this planet's natural resources.


Sloane Kelly


Once both clues have been found, Ryder can travel to the south to Charybdis Point.

Search Charybdis Point for evidence[]
The navpoint leads to somewhere in the two-story building in Charybdis Point.
Speak to Mallox. The place is some sort of low grade hotel (SAM recommends not touching the sheets). Also they sell clean water but he denies any knowledge of the water poisoning.
On the bottom floor is a crate with water filters made by the angara. This is the proof that proves Mallox and his crew stole filters and poisoned the angarans. Mallox enters the room, and justifies the poisonings as payback for their mistreatment.

Defeat the exiles responsible[]
Mallox enters the room and a fight starts. Defeat him and his lackeys outside.
Mallox himself can die easily, though the enemy composition outside may consist of Raiders and an Anarchist.

Rewards[]
+270 XP
+29 AVP 
+2% Kadara viability



