







“By the homeworld I hope to find one day.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect Andromeda: Annihilation follow.






Soval Raxios
Systems Analyst

Race
Drell


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect Andromeda: Annihilation


Soval Raxios was one of the first identified victims of the Fortinbras Plague killing colonists in their sleep aboard the Andromeda Initiative starship Keelah Si'yah. She was a poet back on Kahje whose amiable and gregarious nature left its marks on multiple admirers.

Mass Effect Andromeda: Annihilation[]
One of Soval's pieces was "Each of Us Dying is the Soul Name of Rakhana", described as an excellent piece of work but a little on the nose. She was married to Osyat Raxios, an obnoxious dissident who was more interested in his politics.
Soval was assigned to Sleepwalker Team Yellow-9 while Osyat was assigned to Team Green-5. 34 years old at the time of death, 3 decades before arrival in Andromeda she was found in her assigned cryopod DL2458 but sensor readings reported she's still alive albeit slightly inebriated with turian brandy.
Back in Hephaestus Station Soval poured out the drinks, danced with abandon, and assured people everything will be perfect in Andromeda during the festivities the night before the ark's launch. When all Sleepwalkers revived for the status briefings in the halfway point of the voyage, Soval snuggled up to her husband and partook in the celebrations that followed. While fulfilling her Sleepwalker duties she made an effort to talk to Kholai, leader of a hanar doomsday cult, and tried to sway its gloomy outlook into a more optimistic one.
Soval's demeanor enabled her to make friends with Anax Therion and Malak'Rafa vas Keelah Si'yah. Anax's observations of her deeds led to increasing admiration while Malak secretly became smitten even while knowing she's married. Anax saw her dancing with Captain Qetsi'Olam vas Keelah Si'yah the night before departure, and during her investigation of the plague crisis aboard Keelah Si'yah she noticed everything kept coming back to Soval somehow. She was one of the first infection vectors of the plague, and her outgoing personality was used to turn everyone she came in contact with into carriers. Unfortunately the virus mutated to become lethal.
Soval's body, along with Kholai's and another drell Tyomar Lukad, were autopsied by Yorrik and Ysses in the early hours of the emergency in an attempt to determine the cause of death. They were all airlocked off the ark after the medical team learned what they could.




