



The Space Hamster is a pet that can be taken on board starships. It is a diminutive quadruped rodent with evolutionary origins from Earth that has ventured forth to the stars along with its owner.

Contents

1 Mass Effect 2
2 Mass Effect 3
3 Mass Effect: Andromeda
4 Trivia







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Mass Effect 2[]

The Space Hamster can be bought by Commander Shepard at Citadel Souvenirs for 9,200 credits, barring discounts. Once purchased it appears in the Captain's Cabin of the Normandy SR-2 beside the entrance to the bathroom opposite the Commander's personal terminal, in a glass cage consisting of a multi-holed box and two trays for food and water.
If interacted with, the hamster will come to the glass, look at its owner, then scurry back into its box with an audible squeak. Unlike the fish in the nearby aquarium, the Space Hamster doesn't need to be fed.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3[]

If it was purchased in 2185, the Space Hamster can be found scurrying around the Engineering deck of the Normandy in the same general area where Jack used to be. It emits a barely audible squeak when it senses people approaching, and a much louder one if it was captured. It frequently scurries beyond unreachable areas though it always returns to the open floor while crossing to the other side of the deck. Once caught, it returns to its former spot on the shelf in the Captain's Cabin and behaves the same as it did months earlier.
During the process of tracking down Leviathan, Shepard can take Dr. Bryson's Husk Head Experiment as a souvenir, placing it below the hamster's cage. On interacting with the Space Hamster's cage the head may look up to it and scream, spooking the rodent.
When the Mysterious Figure takes over the Normandy, they attempt to throw out the space hamster, much to Shepard's chagrin. Fortunately, the hamster survives the encounter.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Mass Effect: Andromeda[]

The Andromeda Initiative included animals in their 600-year voyage to the Andromeda galaxy. Sometime after arrival in the Heleus Cluster, somehow a hamster escaped containment and ended up on the Tempest eating food crumbs to survive.
Following the first visit to Kadara Port, Pathfinder Ryder can become aware of the hamster's presence. Initially not knowing what sort of creature has been stowing on the ship, Ryder can make a trap and bait the hamster into revealing itself. Once captured, the hamster can be kept as a pet or sent away to a habitable planet. 

Trivia[]
The Space Hamster is almost certainly a reference to BioWare's Baldur's Gate series, in which a party member named Minsc carried a "miniature giant space hamster" named Boo in his inventory. Any attempts to remove the rodent would result in an audio file being played, the same "squeak" that the Space Hamster intones when interacted with. In the Citadel DLC, Shepard orders the hamster to "go for the eyes" if anyone attacks it - something Minsc frequently says to Boo in Baldur's Gate.



