



Priority Op Heleus Assignment   
An angaran excursion group failed to return at their scheduled time. Resistance spies report the kett captured the group and took them to a holding site for extraction.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Reach kett holding site
2.2 Rescue Niilj and other captured angara
2.3 Clear remaining kett
2.4 Speak to Niilj


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards
5 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Eyes on the Ground or On the Frontlines

Prerequisite: Meet the Resistance

The mission is automatically acquired when either of the identical missions above is completed by talking to the angara Skeot at Hjara Station on Voeld. Regardless of whether you'll think about it or agree to help immediately, Skeot gives you the relevant navpoint and mission.
This mission can also be obtained by simply approaching the Northern Holding Site, as soon as you exit the Angaran Resistance Base and explore the world. This normally happens if you travel to the location for Task: Clearing the Air and/or bypass the expected mission chain. 
Note: The mission is either a Priority Op or a Heleus Assignment depending on its prerequisite's mission type. If it was acquired through exploration, it only shows up in the Completed Missions part of the journal afterward if you haven't done Helping Havarl's Scientists yet, using the Priority Op mission image. If you did, then this mission is classified a Heleus Assignment, and the initial pertinent objectives switch to Rescue captured angara and Speak to rescued angara upon discovery of the holding site. 

Walkthrough[]
Reach kett holding site[]
The navpoint  is located at a heavily guarded kett base named the Northern Holding Site. Make use of the heaters scattered around to ensure the cold hazard doesn't sap Ryder's life support too much.
Enemy composition is standard numerous amounts of Chosen, plus a few Anointed, Destined and/or Wraiths.

Rescue Niilj and other captured angara[]
The angara are imprisoned in four cages with an orange glow. Use the console next to each cage to free the prisoners. The angara will join you in fighting the kett when released. 

Liberating them early is recommended, as unlike most NPC-NPC skirmishes they can actually deal damage while being invulnerable themselves.
Clear remaining kett[]
Once all cages are sprung the objective switches to cleanup. Two waves of single dropship reinforcements briefly replenish enemy numbers so prepare accordingly.
After the battle, there a numerous lootable containers scattered around the site and inside the building.
There is a datapad on the ground next to one of the cages. Inside the building is a terminal with multiple entries.

Speak to Niilj[]
After releasing all the prisoners, talk to Niilj. He says the angara will head back to the Angaran Resistance Base, but another angara mentions that a drive containing vital data from the kett network must be delivered. The angara ask that you take the drive to Buxil in Techiix.
Completing the conversation completes this mission. The mission Meet the Family is automatically acquired.
If this is a Priority Op, a conversation with Jaal will now begin; if Jaal is not in the squad, he will fly to the camp via shuttle. Rescuing the prisoners has been enough to gain Evfra's trust, so you will be given the options of heading to Techiix or advancing A Trail of Hope II by talking to Evfra immediately. If you choose to talk to Evfra, the squad will immediately take a shuttle to the Tempest and leave the planet.

Aftermath[]
Commander Anjik Do Xeel sends an email after this mission:




Confidential Voeld Intel
To: Ryder
From: Commander Do Xeel

Since your liberation of the labor camp on Voeld, some information has come to my attention:

For years, the kett ignored our work in the frozen city of Ja Niihk. Searching for details of our buried past didn't seem to threaten them. One day, we must have uncovered something that the kett deemed extremely dangerous. They invaded the city, killing or enslaving our archeological team, and locked it down.

Intel from the labor camp seems to confirm what have, to this point, only been crazy rumors--there may be an ancient, pre-scourge AI locked in ice in the depths of the city.

This explains the Prefect's swift and violent move. I've heard the kett shun tech like artificial intelligence--and they certainly wouldn't want us to have it.


Please keep this knowledge to yourself.


Rewards[]
Completed as a Heleus Assignment:

+530 XP
+73 AVP 
+5% Voeld viability
Completed as a Priority Op:

+800 XP
+73 AVP 
+5% Voeld viability
Trivia[]
The rescued angara are three males and one female. While liberating them from their cages, however, even the female has male voice lines.

Voeld Trust-Building Missions Navigation


← Previous Mission

Mission Index




On the Frontlines

Missions (Mass Effect: Andromeda)




Voeld Resistance Missions Navigation




Mission Index

Next Mission →




Missions (Mass Effect: Andromeda)

Meet the Family




