


See also: Codex: Special Tasks Group

The Special Tasks Group (STG) is a salarian espionage organization, usually deployed by the Citadel Council or the Salarian Union. STG operators work in independent cells, performing dangerous missions such as counterterrorism, infiltration, reconnaissance, assassination, and sabotage. 

Contents

1 Overview
2 History

2.1 Mass Effect
2.2 Mass Effect 3
2.3 Mass Effect: Andromeda


3 Resources

3.1 Operatives
3.2 Weaponry




Overview[]
The STG form a large part of the salarian military due to their heavy focus on gathering intelligence before making a move. They are used to monitor "developing situations" because they tend to attract less attention than more prominent figures, such as Spectres. This also allows them to quietly "handle" troublesome individuals. STG operators are brutally practical, devoted to accomplishing their mission regardless of the cost involved to others or themselves. Nevertheless, STG operators are highly flexible, accustomed to carrying out their missions on shoestring resources and changing their tactics when necessary.
STG operatives who showed exceptional skill were some of the first Spectre candidates. The records of STG missions are sealed and even the greatest agents are only known by codenames. These include the Ever Alert, who kept armies at bay with hidden facts; another, known as the Silent Step, was so successful he once defeated a nation with a single shot. However, the STG's role in tracking down the infamous League of One is common knowledge.
STGs seconded to the service of the Citadel Council are also known as Infiltration Regiments, and are considered a separate arm of the Council to the Spectres, albeit a complementary one. Compared to Spectres, STG units enjoy better funding and didn't have to buy their own weapons. 







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.









“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




History[]
One of the earliest known STG operations is hunting down the League of One, shortly after the formation of the Citadel Council in 500 BCE. The League was deemed wiped out when no more incidents related to them occurred after the operation.

Mass Effect[]
The STG 3rd Infiltration Regiment was deployed on Virmire during the effort to locate the rogue Spectre Saren Arterius. They discovered his base there and attempted to alert the Council, though the latter only received an empty message. Commander Shepard in turn is directed by the Council to Virmire to investigate. Depending on Shepard's intervention, most or few of the operatives survive the nuking of Saren's base.

Mass Effect 3[]
An STG facility on Sur'Kesh conducts research on the genophage, in addition to finding possible applications for uplifting varren, vorcha, and yahg. Following former agent Maelon Heplorn's efforts on curing the genophage, the STG traveled to Tuchanka, retrieved the krogan females who were subjected to Maelon's experiments, and brought them to this facility. The Urdnot leader, through sources within STG, eventually hears of this and tasks Shepard with returning the females to Tuchanka.
While the sole surviving female, Eve, is being transported through the facility, Cerberus forces attack the base, having been fed information by STG agents who oppose the development of a cure. Shepard successfully extracts Eve and leaves the salarians to clean up after remaining hostiles.
After the Krogan Rebellions, STG sabotaged the Shroud on Tuchanka in order to prevent any potential genophage cures from being disseminated by the structure. Unfortunately Shepard needs the structure for that purpose, in order to secure the krogan's support for the Reaper war. The sabotage can be fixed by the STG agent or former agent (Padok Wiks or Mordin Solus) responsible for completing the cure, or if not, allow the sabotage to go unfixed and let the krogan believe they received the real cure.
Depending on Shepard's previous actions, various STG elements can join the war effort against the Reapers.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
As with many military organizations, the general public has works related to or inspired by the STG. The ND1 Nomad has a paint job named after the Silent Step. There's also a series of short films about the Ever Alert.

Resources[]
Operatives[]
Contemporary Operatives
Cpt. Arlon
Cpt. Stenvon
Jondum Bau (also a Spectre)
Pvt. Menos Avot
Maelon Heplorn (former operative)
Lt. Ganto Imness
Lt. Jenzin
Captain Kirrahe
Commander Rentola
Mordin Solus (former operative)
Lieutenant Tolan
Major Saelen Varn (former operative)
Col. Vaykom
Padok Wiks
Agent Zeta (former operative)
League of One Hunters
Captain Milon - A dead salarian on Edolus can be found carrying Milon's ID tag.
Captain Stranaka - Another long-dead salarian on Mavigon has Stranaka's ID tag among his personal effects.
Captain Thein - Thein's ID tag can be found buried under a beacon on Casbin, but there is no evidence of who buried it or why.
Captain Varsinth - A dead Cerberus soldier found on Nepheron has Varsinth's ID tag in his possession.
Weaponry[]
Scorpion
Venom Shotgun



