






This article is about the power in Mass Effect 3. For the skill in Mass Effect: Andromeda, see Sticky Grenade (skill).

 Sticky Grenade is a grenade power in Mass Effect 3's single-player and multiplayer modes. 

Power Ranks[]
Rank 1: Sticky Grenade[]
Stick this grenade to your opponent, and the explosion will tear apart the target and shrapnel will damage other enemies caught in the blast.

Damage: 750 (1100 multiplayer)
Radius: 2 m


Rank 2: Max Grenades[]
Increase grenade capacity by 1.


Rank 3: Damage[]
Increase damage by 20%.

Damage: 900 (1320 multiplayer)
Radius: 2 m


Rank 4: Damage/Radius[]



Damage
Increase damage by 30%.

Damage: 1125 (1650 multiplayer)
Radius: 2 m


Radius
Increase impact radius by 30%.

Damage: 900 (1320 multiplayer)
Radius: 2.60 m



Rank 5: Max Grenades/Armor-Piercing[]



Max Grenades
Increase grenade capacity by 2.



Armor-Piercing
Increase damage to armored units by 50%.




Rank 6: Damage/Proximity Trap[]



Damage
Increase damage by 40%.

Damage: 1425 (2090 multiplayer) [Damage], 1200 (1760 multiplayer) [Radius]
Radius: 2 m (Damage), 2.60 m (Radius)


Proximity Trap
Grenades stay active for 15 seconds when attached to a wall or surface, exploding when an enemy approaches.Increase impact radius by 50%.

Damage: 1125 (1650 multiplayer) [Damage], 900 (1320 multiplayer) [Radius]
Radius: 3 m (Damage), 3.60 m (Radius)



Player Notes[]
Mechanics
Grenade powers do not have a recharge time and thus can be used immediately at any time, provided grenades are available. Using the power consumes one grenade each time.
If the player has multiple grenade powers, the grenade pool is shared between them.
When thrown the grenade will not deactivate the Infiltrator's Tactical Cloak allowing for stealthy placement, though once a grenade deals damage, enemies can detect the Infiltrator even while cloaked.
The Sticky Grenade base explosion radius is one of the smallest of any grenade, but it can penetrate cover and terrain (though not Guardian or CAT6 Heavy shields).
Ammo Effects: Using Ammo Powers/Ammo Bonuses endows Sticky Grenades with the same properties, useful for crowd control and priming Power Combos. The additional damage bonus is somehow determined by the base damage per bullet of the currently active weapon. Thus, high-damage weapons that don't fire pellets (e.g. M-98 Widow, Javelin, Kishock Harpoon Gun or N7 Crusader) are recommended to maximize damage. The Acolyte or Executioner Pistol are also good options for maximizing Sticky Grenade damage, especially if equipped with a Pistol Power Magnifier mod.
Because the ammo-endowed component of Sticky Grenade's damage (not the grenade's base damage) will suffer from sniper rifles' non-scoped damage penalty, placing grenades while scoped is recommended. The Kishock Harpoon Gun is the only sniper rifle that doesn't suffer this penalty.
In multiplayer mode only, throwing a Sticky Grenade while attached to cover when carrying any scoped weapon automatically zooms through the scope. The sudden change in view can easily throw off your aim.
Only actually sticking a grenade onto an enemy will prime it for a Power Combo, enemies merely caught in the detonation will not be primed.
The detonation of the grenade can itself detonate any Power Combo primed by the ammunition effect, making Sticky Grenade unique in that it requires only one power use to both prime and detonate a combo. Any combo except a Biotic Explosion can be primed or detonated, but only Fire Explosions and Tech Bursts can be simultaneously primed and detonated with a single grenade, owing to the amount of time it takes for an enemy to freeze.
Strategies
The Bonus Power evolution of Tactical Cloak can enable an Infiltrator to hit a target with a power without breaking cloak, enabling a one-two punch with Sticky Grenade, first debuffing or priming a target with a power such as Sabotage and then detonating a Power Combo with the follow-up grenade, all without losing invisibility.
Even though multiple grenades can be used while Tactical Cloak is active without losing the invisibility and damage bonus of the cloak, enemies are able to determine your general location after the first grenade is thrown. Remain wary, and throw while in or near cover. Helpfully, attaching grenades to enemies and/or their detonations often stuns targets.
Taking the Proximity Trap evolution in Rank 6 turns the Sticky Grenade into a highly effective proximity mine (potentially more damaging than the actual Proximity Mine), although it is only temporary (15 seconds max).  However, setting up multiple grenades in a choke point can take out or severely weaken a large group of enemies.
Landing Sticky Grenades reliably is one of the most important aspects to using it effectively.
Sticky Grenades are easy to land on large or slow targets like Atlas mechs, Ravagers, and Brutes.
Usage against Banshees and Phantoms can prove problematic due to their slender profiles, rapid movement, and power-blocking abilities. Unexpected moves like their screams or somersaults makes it even harder to land grenades on them.
Only place grenades on Praetorians that are no longer hovering, as they can't use their power immunity.
Weapons or powers that can stun opponents or get them to waste their power-blocking abilities are useful techniques to ensure Sticky Grenade lands and deals damage. For example, the M-37 Falcon is able to stagger even some heavy armored targets and can prevent Phantoms from dodging or blocking powers.
Availability[]
Single-Player: Infiltrator
Multiplayer: Human Infiltrator, Quarian Infiltrator


Mass Effect 3 Powers


Ammo

Armor-Piercing Ammo • Cryo Ammo • Disruptor Ammo • Incendiary Ammo • Warp Ammo


Biotic

Annihilation Field • Barrier • Biotic Focus • Biotic Hammer • Biotic Orbs • Biotic Protector • Biotic Slash • Biotic Sphere • Charge • Cluster Grenade • Dark Channel • Dark Sphere • Dominate • Flare • Lash • Lift Grenade • Nova • Poison Strike • Pull • Reave • Seeker Swarm • Shockwave • Singularity • Slam • Smash • Stasis • Throw • Warp • Warp Ammo


Combat

Adrenaline Rush • Arc Grenade • Ballistic Blades • Blade Armor • Bloodlust • Cain Trip Mine • Carnage • Concussive Shot • Devastator Mode • Fortification • Frag Grenade • Hawk Missile Launcher • Inferno Grenade • Marksman • Multi-Frag Grenade • Nightshade Blades • Phase Disruptor • Proximity Mine • Recon Mine • Repair Matrix • Sticky Grenade • Stimulant Pack


Tech

Armor-Piercing Arrows • Combat Drone • Concussive Arrows • Cryo Blast • Decoy • Defense Drone • Defense Matrix • Electric Slash • Electrical Hammer • Energy Drain • Flamer • Geth Turret • Havoc Strike • Hex Shield • Homing Grenade • Hunter Mode • Incinerate • Overload • Sabotage • Sentry Turret • Shadow Strike • Shield Boost • Siege Pulse • Snap Freeze • Submission Net • Supply Pylon • Tactical Cloak • Tactical Scan • Tech Armor


Fitness

Fitness (Adept) • Fitness (Engineer) • Fitness (Infiltrator) • Fitness (Sentinel) • Fitness (Soldier) • Fitness (Vanguard)


Fitness (multiplayer)

Advanced Hardware • Ancient Warrior • Fitness Module • Hardened Platform • Omni-Bow Mastery • Rage • Shield Mastery • Sword Mastery • T5-V Internal Systems • Venom Gauntlets • Warlord Rage


Player Class

Assault Mastery • Biotic Mastery • Combat Mastery • Offensive Mastery • Operational Mastery • Tech Mastery


Player Class (multiplayer)

Alliance Training • Armiger Legion • Asari Huntress • Asari Justicar • Asari Valkyrie • Batarian Enforcer • Drell Assassin • Elite Mercenary • Geth Juggernaut • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Krogan Warlord • N7 Demolisher • N7 Fury • N7 Paladin • N7 Shadow • N7 Slayer • Networked AI • Phoenix Training • Quarian Defender • Salarian Operative • T5-V Battlesuit • Turian Veteran • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient • Volus Training • Vorcha Resilience


Squadmate Class

Alliance Admiral • Alliance Officer • Arms Master • Asari Justicar • Biotic Boss • Cerberus Officer • Cerberus Operative • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Master Thief • Mercenary Veteran • Pure Biotic • Quarian Machinist • Subject Zero • Turian Huntress • Turian Rebel • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient




