




Strogjaw Grog

 







Faction
Outlaws


Weapons / Attacks
Ruzad Shotgun


Abilities
Flak CannonBerserker Charge


Armor
High


Shields
–


Weak Points
Head


Strogjaw Grog is a Berserker leader of the scavengers at The Flophouse on Elaaden.
In the course of improving Elaaden's viability for the Andromeda Initiative, Pathfinder Ryder can clear the scavengers out of the flophouse and defeat Strogjaw Grog.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Grog has access to Flak Cannon and the Ruzad. He can also deal two strong types of melee attack: swinging the shotgun like a club and the krogan headbutt.

Defensive
He is armored. He can regenerate some of that armor if it drops at a low enough threshold via Berserker Charge, incidentally also boosting his movement speed.

Tactics[]
Strogjaw Grog is essentially a named Berserker and has inherited his unit type's strengths and weaknesses.
Grog's final posse consists of an Agent, a Pariah, some Sharpshooters, and Raiders. Unlike the usual procedures in dealing with Berserkers, Grog can be left for last since by the time you get to him his lackeys are more nuisance than threat and can be dealt with easily.
Trivia[]
Strogjaw Grog is likely an Easter egg to Grog Strongjaw, a Goliath Barbarian played by Travis Willingham on the live-streamed Dungeons & Dragons campaign "Critical Role". Willingham previously voiced Toni in Mass Effect: Paragon Lost.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




