







This article is a disambiguation page.
The following is a list of links to pages that might share the same title.
Please follow one of the disambiguation links below or search to find the page you were looking for if it is not listed. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.


Suicide Mission is the name given both formally and informally to the battle that serves as the finale of Mass Effect 2. Related articles are listed below.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Lore Pages[]
Commander Shepard's overarching mission during the events of Mass Effect 2 is to defeat the race known as the Collectors responsible for the disappearance of entire human colonies. This culminates in a desperate and daring counterattack into the heart of their territory often referred to within the story as the "suicide mission." 
Omega 4 Relay - The Collectors are rumored to operate from somewhere beyond this uncharted mass relay. The Suicide Mission takes its name partly from the fact that no ship to enter the relay previously has ever returned. Entering the relay is considered the start of the Suicide Mission.
Collector Base - Installation thought to be located beyond the Omega 4 Relay from where the Collectors launch their attacks. Primary target of the Suicide Mission.
Storyline II - An in-universe style narrative encompassing the events surrounding Mass Effect 2 including the Suicide Mission.
Guides[]
Pages giving a broad overview and walkthrough of Mass Effect 2 up to and including the Suicide Mission.

Mass Effect 2 Guide - The main walkthrough guide for all of Mass Effect 2; Act 3 covers the Suicide Mission.
Stop the Collectors - The main plot mission during the the events of Mass Effect 2. The Suicide Mission is its conclusion.
Mission Walkthroughs[]
The following are the gameplay-specific walkthrough pages for each of the individual playable combat segments that are part of the Suicide Mission itself. This list is also found on the Mass Effect 2 Guide page.

The Normandy Attacked - (On the Stop the Collectors page) The Normandy must be defended from an invader.
Collector Base: Infiltration - Shepard and a ground team enter the Collector's domain on foot.
Collector Base: The Long Walk - Shepard's team pushes deeper into the Collector Base.
Collector Base: Final Battle - Shepard's team confronts the truth behind the abductions.



