


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
Sulfur Springs is a vast and varied region in Kadara's badlands, home to a large amount of eponymous sulfur springs. It is bounded to the north by Kurinth's Valley, to the east by Varren's Scalp and the western end of the mountain range where Kadara Port stands, to the south by Draullir, and to the further west by impassable mountains.
The Sulfur Springs' territory is one of the lowest valleys in the area, and most of it is distinctly marked by vehicle trails. It extends southwest where it becomes bounded by Draullir to its east. As such, terrain is usually uphill and travel is by the slopes of a mountain. This can tax the Nomad's fuel injection boosters for covering the ascent, especially if not upgraded. 







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




One of Kadara's Remnant monoliths is on Sulfur Springs, south of a site that's a prime candidate for an Andromeda Initiative outpost. If the world's political and environmental issues are resolved correctly, the Initiative can plant a settlement in that site and call it Ditaeon. 
A number of Outlaw camps are set up near or on the vehicle trails. The springs' sole Forward Station is located near such a camp and the southward uphill boundary with Draullir. 
Exiles who cannot afford Kadara Port's fees can temporarily find lodging at Charybdis Point, a hostel northeast of the monolith and Ditaeon's potential site.
There are two identified basic mining zones the springs. One is near the forward station, and is rich in aluminum, beryllium, copper, and titanium. The other is on the far southwest and is rich in the same resources except titanium. There are also two identified rare mining zones, one near Charybdis Point and another in the far southwest, both rich in aluminum, beryllium, copper, and titanium. Lastly, there are three hidden caches: one to the southwest hear a basic mining zone, another around Ditaeon, and another in the mountains further northeast of Charybdis Point.

Missions[]



Priority Ops
Hunting the Archon


Allies and Relationships
Nakmor Drack: Krogan Betrayal
Ryder Family Secrets
Vetra Nyx: A Moment Planetside




Heleus Assignments
Behind Enemy Lines
Healing Kadara's Heart


Additional Tasks
Task: Better Crafting
Task: Boosting the Signal
Task: Hitting Rocks for Science
Task: Kadara's Ransom

Datapads[]
On a tower next to a cave entrance to the Draullir region:




Collective Operative: [Audio Log] Relaying orders from the Charlatan.
Collective Operative: [Audio Log] Fall back to Draullir base. We have a situation.





