


Supply Pylon is a tech power in Mass Effect 3's multiplayer mode.

Power Ranks[]
Rank 1: Supply Pylon[]
Deploy an immobile pylon that supplies ammo and grenades. A built-in tech generator also increases maximum shields for nearby allies.
Only one pylon can be active at a time.Ammo and grenades expire after 17.50s.

Recharge Speed: 30 sec
Ammo Drop Frequency: 17.50 sec
Grenade Drop Frequency: 24 sec
Max Shield Increase: 25%
Radius: 4 m


Rank 2: Recharge Speed[]
Increase recharge speed by 25%.

Recharge Speed: 24 sec
Ammo Drop Frequency: 17.50 sec
Grenade Drop Frequency: 24 sec
Max Shield Increase: 25%
Radius: 4 m


Rank 3: Resupply Frequency[]
Increase the rate of ammunition generation by 15%.Increase the rate of grenade generation by 15%.

Recharge Speed: 24 sec
Ammo Drop Frequency: 15.22 sec
Grenade Drop Frequency: 20.87 sec
Max Shield Increase: 25%
Radius: 4 m


Rank 4: Resupply Frequency/Radius[]



Resupply Frequency
Increase the rate of ammunition generation by 25%.Increase the rate of grenade generation by 25%.

Recharge Speed: 24 sec
Ammo Drop Frequency: 12.50 sec
Grenade Drop Frequency: 17.14 sec
Max Shield Increase: 25%
Radius: 4 m


Radius
Increase the radius in which the pylon give bonuses to allies by 40%.

Recharge Speed: 24 sec
Ammo Drop Frequency: 15.22 sec
Grenade Drop Frequency: 20.87 sec
Max Shields Increase: 25%
Radius: 5.60 m



Rank 5: Weapon Damage/Power Damage[]



Weapon Damage
Upgrade the tech generator to also increase allied weapon damage by 10%.



Power Damage
Upgrade the tech generator to also increase allied power damage by 10%.




Rank 6: Extra Grenade/Max Shields[]



Extra Grenade
Increase the number of grenades generated by 1.



Max Shields
Increase max shields by an additional 25%.

Recharge Speed: 24 sec
Ammo Drop Frequency: 12.50 sec (Resupply Frequency), 15.22 sec (Radius)
Grenade Drop Frequency: 17.14 sec (Resupply Frequency), 20.87 sec (Radius)
Max Shield Increase: 50%
Radius: 4 m (Resupply Frequency), 5.60 m (Radius)



Player Notes[]
Mechanics
The supply pylon, once placed, will last indefinitely unless a new one is placed by the same player or they leave the match.
In addition to the above; the pylon will remain active even if the player that placed it died during the round. This includes bleed outs.
Additionally, the pylon cannot be destroyed by anything, unless the player deploys another one.
The supply pylon only drops 1 thermal clip & 1 grenade (2 if extra grenade 6th evolution is taken) per resupply frequency.
There is always one drop immediately upon deployment of the pylon.
The supplies can be picked up by anyone.
You or allies only receive the bonuses while you are in the circle.
However, if the radius expansion evolution is taken, the illuminated area is smaller than its actual area of effect. The brief glowing shield effect on players can be used as an indicator.
Supply Pylon deals damage to enemies caught in the explosion as a new Supply Pylon is cast, allowing it to be used as a remotely activated mine.
The shield boosting effect of the pylon lingers for a few seconds even after a player leaves the effective radius. Once the boosted shield wears off, stepping back in range of the pylon restores the bonus shield. This can act as an emergency shield restore for players who have had their regular shield recharge delayed by damage-over-time effects such as the ranged projectiles of Banshees or Swarmer acid attacks.
Strategies
The pylon is also a great group buff machine should your allies decide to remain within the radius it illuminates. It can give a big boost to their maximum shields & either their weapon or power damages making it an over all great utility.
As supplies are dispensed immediately upon deployment, players can generate two handouts quickly by deploying another pylon immediately after the old pylon dispenses.
A good strategy for Gold (or even Platinum) matches would be to cooperate with another N7 Demolisher Engineer to each take one set of evolutions--one Pylon built to dispense as much ammo and grenades as possible, and the other specced to give the biggest group buffs it can. Then both of you deploy the pylons as close to each other as possible in an easy-to-defend spot, and let the squad enjoy constant top-ups of ammunition as well as substantial buffs to damage and durability. Don't forget that a buff-oriented pylon will still provide some ammo and grenades.
If the player starts placing a new pylon, but is killed before completing it, the pylon will not be placed but the cooldown will still be triggered.  When trying to set up a pylon in a new location, it's a good idea to make sure you'll survive the process, or you'll be stuck waiting through a very long cooldown before you can try again.
Supply Pylon synergizes very well with the Asari Justicar Adept's Biotic Sphere. If the Max Shields evolution of Supply Pylon is chosen and Biotic Sphere is evolved for maximum damage reduction, the two combined give a 150% increase to the amount of damage protected allies' shields can take before breaking. The Biotic Sphere also provides damage reduction even to the bonus shields awarded by the Supply Pylon.
Since there is always one drop of supplies immediately upon placing the pylon, faster power recharge speeds enable faster ammunition and grenade refills for a heavy grenade playstyle. Alternatively, since Supply Pylon is the Demolisher's only power with a cooldown and it lasts indefinitely, another playstyle is to equip extremely heavy weapons and disregard having a fast cooldown speed altogether.
Availability[]
Single-player: N/A
Multiplayer: N7 Demolisher Engineer


Mass Effect 3 Powers


Ammo

Armor-Piercing Ammo • Cryo Ammo • Disruptor Ammo • Incendiary Ammo • Warp Ammo


Biotic

Annihilation Field • Barrier • Biotic Focus • Biotic Hammer • Biotic Orbs • Biotic Protector • Biotic Slash • Biotic Sphere • Charge • Cluster Grenade • Dark Channel • Dark Sphere • Dominate • Flare • Lash • Lift Grenade • Nova • Poison Strike • Pull • Reave • Seeker Swarm • Shockwave • Singularity • Slam • Smash • Stasis • Throw • Warp • Warp Ammo


Combat

Adrenaline Rush • Arc Grenade • Ballistic Blades • Blade Armor • Bloodlust • Cain Trip Mine • Carnage • Concussive Shot • Devastator Mode • Fortification • Frag Grenade • Hawk Missile Launcher • Inferno Grenade • Marksman • Multi-Frag Grenade • Nightshade Blades • Phase Disruptor • Proximity Mine • Recon Mine • Repair Matrix • Sticky Grenade • Stimulant Pack


Tech

Armor-Piercing Arrows • Combat Drone • Concussive Arrows • Cryo Blast • Decoy • Defense Drone • Defense Matrix • Electric Slash • Electrical Hammer • Energy Drain • Flamer • Geth Turret • Havoc Strike • Hex Shield • Homing Grenade • Hunter Mode • Incinerate • Overload • Sabotage • Sentry Turret • Shadow Strike • Shield Boost • Siege Pulse • Snap Freeze • Submission Net • Supply Pylon • Tactical Cloak • Tactical Scan • Tech Armor


Fitness

Fitness (Adept) • Fitness (Engineer) • Fitness (Infiltrator) • Fitness (Sentinel) • Fitness (Soldier) • Fitness (Vanguard)


Fitness (multiplayer)

Advanced Hardware • Ancient Warrior • Fitness Module • Hardened Platform • Omni-Bow Mastery • Rage • Shield Mastery • Sword Mastery • T5-V Internal Systems • Venom Gauntlets • Warlord Rage


Player Class

Assault Mastery • Biotic Mastery • Combat Mastery • Offensive Mastery • Operational Mastery • Tech Mastery


Player Class (multiplayer)

Alliance Training • Armiger Legion • Asari Huntress • Asari Justicar • Asari Valkyrie • Batarian Enforcer • Drell Assassin • Elite Mercenary • Geth Juggernaut • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Krogan Warlord • N7 Demolisher • N7 Fury • N7 Paladin • N7 Shadow • N7 Slayer • Networked AI • Phoenix Training • Quarian Defender • Salarian Operative • T5-V Battlesuit • Turian Veteran • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient • Volus Training • Vorcha Resilience


Squadmate Class

Alliance Admiral • Alliance Officer • Arms Master • Asari Justicar • Biotic Boss • Cerberus Officer • Cerberus Operative • Krogan Battlemaster • Krogan Berserker • Master Thief • Mercenary Veteran • Pure Biotic • Quarian Machinist • Subject Zero • Turian Huntress • Turian Rebel • Unshackled AI • Vengeful Ancient




