




Sur'Kesh

Region
Milky Way / Annos Basin / Pranas





Planet View


Orbital Distance
1.1 AU


Orbital Period
1.2 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.924


Radius
6,709 km


Day Length
21.5 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
1.42 atm


Surface Temp
25 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.94 g


Mass
1.032 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Annos Basin / Pranas System /  Second planet


Homeworld

Species
Salarian


Capital
Talat


Population
10.3 billion


Population (Orbital Stations)
1.1 million



Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Missions
4 See Also
5 Trivia


Description[]
The salarian homeworld has been likened to the jungles of Earth: pretty to look at, teeming with life, uncomfortable to live in and dangerous to the unwary. The technophilic salarians had significant pollution and waste problems early in the development of their society. They also embraced social solutions just as quickly, and through complex breeding rules, Sur'Kesh now maintains a crowded but sustainable population. The planet tends to be wetter than Earth, and salarian cities spare no expense to collect and provide fresh water, as one might expect from an amphibious species.
Due to Sur'Kesh's location in the galaxy, far from dark space, it has yet to be invaded by the Reapers. But its rulers are all too aware that they are in the path of attack. Because they could not strike the first blow, as their military doctrine suggests, many already consider their forces at a severe disadvantage.

Codex Entry[]





Audio: Sur'Keshhttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Codex_ME3_-_Sur%27kesh.ogg

Alternating between large oceans and landmasses covered in flora, the salarian homeworld, Sur'Kesh, is known for its humid climate and lush vegetation. As with the rainforests that once covered Earth, the planet's many forests enjoy a rich biodiversity. The salarian desire for intellectual stimulation drove them long ago to explore every aspect of their environment, developing ways to thrive without consequences detrimental to their habitat.
The areas near major cities and industrial centers are meticulously maintained, with an eye towards ensuring that sunlight penetrates to the ground level and that established paths through the jungle are kept clear for travel. Burngrass, a soil-enriching and adaptable weed native to Sur'Kesh, has become a major export because of its value for terraforming.


Missions[]
Mission: Priority: Sur'Kesh
See Also[]
Cerberus Daily News
"Systems Alliance Prime Minister Meets with Salarian Dalatrass" story
Alliance News Network
Linron retains power, but control disputed
Trivia[]
The Mass Effect 3 multiplayer map Firebase Jade is located on Sur'Kesh.



