






This article is about the War Asset system in Mass Effect 3 generally. For the specific War Asset scores required to achieve certain endings in Mass Effect 3, see Priority: Earth#Aftermath.


War Assets in Mass Effect 3 are the people, weapons, armies, fleets, items, and technology that Commander Shepard can accumulate throughout the game. 
War Assets have a point value, indicating Total Military Strength. This value, multiplied by a Readiness Rating, produces the galaxy's Effective Military Strength and affects the outcome of the final battle against the Reapers. The player can acquire War Assets through missions, certain interactions with other characters between missions, scanning planets in systems controlled by the Reapers, and events in the galaxy at large that the player isn't directly involved in.

Contents

1 War Assets
2 Readiness Rating

2.1 Legendary Edition


3 Sword, Shield, and Hammer
4 See Also
5 References


War Assets[]
War Assets and their total military strength can be inspected using the War Terminal located in the War Room on the second deck of the Normandy.

Alien
Alliance
Asari
Crucible
Ex-Cerberus
Geth
Krogan
Quarian
Salarian
Turian
Readiness Rating[]
The readiness rating is presented as a percentage of the collected War Assets that contribute to the galaxy's Total Military Strength. War Asset's true value is attributed to the Total Military Strength, but is then multiplied by the Readiness Rating percentage, resulting in the Effective Military Strength. The readiness rating is increased by participation in the Galaxy at War system, which includes:

Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer (No longer available in Legendary Edition[1])
Mass Effect: Infiltrator (No longer available in Apple's AppStore or Google's Play Store since 2015[2])
Mass Effect 3: Datapad (No longer available in the app store as of June 6, 2013[3])
N7 HQ (Now incorporates functions previously on Datapad)
Participation in Galaxy at War is encouraged to maximize the Military Strength given by each War Asset, as playing single-player alone will limit EMS by 50%, or half, of the overall War Assets score the player has acquired. There are 8370 total War Assets available in the game without downloadable content, but this number cannot be reached as it includes War Assets that are restricted to specific outcomes of player decisions, including saving Kaidan Alenko or Ashley Williams, saving or sacrificing the Citadel Council, and spreading or sabotaging the genophage cure. As such, the highest obtainable War Assets score without DLC is approximately 7500. If the multiplayer mode is not played, the player will only be able to acquire ~3750 EMS, which is less than the ~4000 EMS necessary to experience all possible endings.
Downloadable content for Mass Effect 3 significantly affects the War Assets system. Mass Effect 3: Extended Cut lowers the EMS required to achieve all possible endings from ~4000 to 3100. Mass Effect 3: Leviathan features an additional 620 War Assets for the player to obtain, Mass Effect 3: Omega features an additional 405 War Assets, and Mass Effect 3: Citadel adds 70 points to the Alliance Frigate Normandy SR-2 War Asset. With all the DLC, the highest obtainable War Assets score rises to around 8500.
In Mass Effect 3's multiplayer mode, completing matches adds to the player's overall readiness rating. While the player may choose the map they wish to play, this only puts readiness points towards the associated theater of war. Typically, if a specific map is chosen, 8-9% readiness is added to that theater, while if "Unknown Location" is chosen, aside from the XP Bonus, 3-4% readiness is added overall. The readiness rating is averaged from the ratings of all the theaters, meaning if "Unknown Location" is chosen, all theaters will receive a 3-4% boost. If a multiplayer mission fails in the second half of the match (after Wave 5), 2% will be allotted to the player. Readiness will not fall as long as the PC/console is kept offline.

Legendary Edition[]
Galactic Readiness does not exist in Legendary Edition as the multiplayer component has been removed. All War Asset values are what they would be if they were at 100% effectiveness in the original game, and there is no Effective Military Strength value displayed in-game, only Total Military Strength. Additionally, the Military Strength scores required for certain endings have been adjusted. For example, to obtain the Destroy ending where Shepard breathes, at least 7400 Total Military Strength is required. 







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Sword, Shield, and Hammer[]
When the mission Priority: Earth is started, all gathered War Assets combine into three different groups, codenamed Sword, Shield and Hammer. Sword and Shield consist of all allied fleets and starships, and Hammer consists of all ground forces. When Sword attacks the Reaper fleet above Earth, it acts as a distraction to allow Hammer to land on Earth and engage the Reapers on the ground to aid Admiral Anderson's resistance forces. Meanwhile, Shield is held in reserve to escort the Crucible into position to dock with the Citadel.
Depending on the number of War Assets gathered and their combined military effectiveness rating, Sword and Hammer will either begin taking heavy losses quickly or be able to hold their own until the end of the mission. The survival and continued defense of Sword and Hammer are pivotal to the success of the final mission. For example, high EMS results in enough suppressive fire for the Normandy to quickly land and extract squad members to safety, as well as allowing the Crucible to dock with little to no damage taken.

See Also[]
Galaxy at War
Multiplayer
Mass Effect: Infiltrator
Mass Effect: Datapad
N7 HQ
Search and Rescue for War Assets obtainable directly through the Galaxy Map
References[]

↑ https://www.pcgamer.com/mass-effect-legendary-edition-cuts-mass-effect-3-multiplayer-entirely/

↑ http://masseffect.wikia.com/wiki/Talk:Mass_Effect:_Infiltrator#Gone.

↑ http://www.eurogamer.net/articles/2013-06-06-ea-retires-mass-effect-3-datapad-app





