


You've acquired detailed data files from a geth outpost. Given the history of the quarians, these might be of interest to Tali.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough
3 Mass Effect 2 Consequences
4 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: UNC: Geth Incursions

Purge the geth stronghold on Solcrum as part of the given prerequisite. Search the stronghold, and you can find geth data on a terminal in the back room. Accessing the terminal gives this assignment.

Walkthrough[]
Once you have the data, return to the Normandy and speak to Tali. She will ask to talk about the data you received. She wants a copy of it as her Pilgrimage gift. The only way to make her happy and give her something to return to her people with will be to give her a copy of the data, but it's your call.
You can initially refuse to give Tali a copy, but she will try to reason with you, and you can follow up on her line of thinking. However, once you decide you can't take risks on handing out classified information, that decision is final.
You gain experience and 1 morality point from the affair. If you let Tali copy the data, that's 1 Paragon point. If you don't let her copy the data, that's 1 Renegade point.
The assignment is then completed and renamed Tali's Pilgrimage (or Tali's pilgrimage) in the journal: capital 'P' if you gave the data, small 'p' if not.

Mass Effect 2 Consequences[]
On Freedom's Progress, Shepard can verify his/her identity for Tali by mentioning the geth data that she received. Tali will confirm that it aided in her Pilgrimage. If the data was withheld, Shepard cannot reassure her in this manner, though Tali will not remain overly suspicious. In this case, her Pilgrimage is still presumably a success, though it is unknown what she used as a substitute gift.

Trivia[]
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition the assignment name switches caps on Pilgrimage depending on whether you gave Tali the data. In the original version of Mass Effect, the assignment name is Tali's pilgrimage regardless of your choice.



