




Talis Fia

Region
Milky Way / The Shrike Abyssal / Urla Rast





Planet View


Orbital Distance
1.6 AU


Orbital Period
2.0 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
1.024


Radius
7,550 km


Day Length
33.8 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
6.15 atm


Surface Temp
−25 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.7 g


Mass
2.364 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / The Shrike Abyssal / Urla Rast System /  Second planet


Colony

Species
Volus


Capital
Usra Dao


Colony Founded
385 CE


Population
3.8 billion(Pop. estimates are pre-invasion)



Prerequisite: Star Chart from Baria Frontiers store or N7: Blood Pack Communications Relay (Mass Effect 2)

Prerequisite: Priority: Palaven (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description

1.1 Mass Effect 2
1.2 Mass Effect 3


2 Mineral Deposits
3 Mission
4 Search and Rescue


Description[]
Mass Effect 2[]
Talis Fia is a planet capable of supporting life -- if that life happens to breathe ammonia. Discovered by asari explorers, the planet was used as a bargaining chip by the Citadel Council, who quickly drafted a colonization agreement with its wealthy client race, the volus. The Council would fund the volus colonization effort in return for massive trade benefits. With uncharacteristic enthusiasm, an enormous volus influx ensued, and the Council reaped the economic benefits for a dozen years before the colonization bubble burst.
Today, the economic good times on Talis Fia are long gone, and modern volus businesses are cutthroat operations. Piracy is a grave threat to shipping, as well-armed criminals see the volus as easy prey.

Mass Effect 3[]
Talis Fia is a planet capable of supporting life--if that life happens to breathe ammonia. Discovered by asari explorers, the planet was used as a bargaining chip by the Citadel Council, who quickly drafted a colonization agreement with its wealthy client race, the volus. The Council would fund the volus colonization effort in return for massive trade benefits. With uncharacteristic enthusiasm, an enormous volus influx ensued, and the Council reaped the economic benefits for a dozen years before the colonization bubble burst.
The Reapers found Talis Fia easy prey. The independent planet had a defense fleet only sufficient to handle small-scale actions. Its high population and industrial base, once a deterrent to war with other Terminus system worlds, has only served to attract a larger number of Reapers than usual.

Mineral Deposits[]
Initial Scanner Result: Good



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

Medium

5,300


Platinum

High

10,900


Iridium

Low

4,000


Element Zero

Low

4,300

Mission[]
Mission: Shrike Abyssal: Prothean Obelisk
Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Artifact: Prothean Obelisk



