






This article is about Tarak in general. For information and tactics on fighting him, see A-61 Mantis Gunship.








Tarak
Blue Suns Cell Leader

Race
Batarian


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: HomeworldsMass Effect 2


Tarak is the leader of the Blue Suns on Omega in 2185.






“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




The vigilante Archangel personally tried to kill Tarak in his own home. Fed up with the vigilante's antics not only to him but also Blue Suns operations as a whole, Tarak forms a temporary alliance with Blood Pack and Eclipse, other mercenary groups that have been similarly inconvenienced by Archangel. The attempt on his life put Tarak on edge, making him extremely short-tempered and paranoid, to the point where he harries and second-guesses his subordinates like Jentha.
Although none of the other mercenary bosses would admit it, Tarak is the de facto leader in charge. He has experience brokering deals between factions, and is a capable negotiator despite his present agitation. Having cornered Archangel at his base of operations, Tarak decided that hiring and sending in waves of expendable freelancers is the best way to distract the vigilante until specialized teams could get in place. Should the infiltration teams fail, Tarak plans to kill all freelancers who are still alive, and let the Eclipse and Blood Pack pit their forces against Archangel while the Blue Suns forces hang back, against Jentha's advice of cooperating with the others. He loathes having to use freelancers and outside help in the first place, but he is getting desperate.
In spite of this distrust, Tarak became involved in a scheme to move against Omega's "queen" Aria T'Loak using the combined might of the three largest gangs following the operation against Archangel. The Eclipse leader Jaroth shared the idea to Blood Pack leader Garm, and later composed a message to Tarak confirming the two bosses are on board.
Tarak used his personal A-61 Mantis Gunship against Archangel early in the assault, but the vigilante succeeded in disabling it, forcing him to return to base. He ordered Sergeant Cathka to finish repairs as soon as possible under threat of sending him against Archangel next. The distraction had some benefit, as a few teams managed to sneak into the vigilante's hideout. While the other mercs expend their men against Archangel, Tarak plans to finish off the vigilante once the gunship is repaired, counting on the latter's fatigue.
Too busy with overseeing the operation, Tarak has no time for lowly freelancers wandering into his lair, barely acknowledging them as "scum" as he orders Jentha to deal with them. He wants someone to get blueprints of Archangel's base to determine more courses of attack. If Zaeed Massani is with a group of freelancers wanting to talk to him, Tarak looks up from his terminal, surprised at his appearance. He and Zaeed "worked together" in the past, and he wonders why Zaeed signed up for the measly 500 credits dangled as pay to all freelancers. He briefly explains his actions before requesting Jentha to answer their questions. He doesn't give the same courtesy if Zaeed isn't around.
Much later, both Eclipse and Blood Pack forces are spent courtesy of Commander Shepard's team who rushed to Archangel's aid disguised as freelancers. Tarak enters the battle in his personal gunship, offloading troops while unloading suppressive gunfire and missiles. One of his missiles explodes near the vigilante, taking him out of commission. Shepard's team retaliates and shoots down the gunship, killing Tarak.




