


For the location in Mass Effect 2, see Tartarus Debris Field.
This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
Tartarus is a nightclub at the center of Kadara Slums. Run by Kian Dagher, it provides a distraction to the miserable living conditions in the slums.
The bar has two floors with ample space for patrons to mingle or dance on. The chamber in the back of the upper floor originally served as an employee resting room, though Reyes Vidal sought an arrangement with Kian that allows him to commandeer it for himself.
The bar's staff entertain and serve drinks from behind cages as a reminder to customers to keep their hands to themselves. Tartarus' clientele aren't usually known for their manners, and because the employees can handle themselves there had been incidents where handsy customers ended up losing their fingers.
Other employees of the bar include Cassandra Verner.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Should Reyes be outed as the Charlatan and his attempt to usurp Sloane Kelly failed, he goes to ground and consequently abandons his spot in Tartarus. Otherwise, even if Sloane was killed and the Collective has taken Kadara Port, Reyes still prefers to manage his affairs from the bar.

Missions[]



Allies and Relationships
High Noon†


Heleus Assignments
Mixed Messages
Murder in Kadara Port
Precious Cargo
The Baryte Rush

† Conditional
Datapads[]



All Tartarus Staff
Upstairs private room is now occupied, so you'll have to find a new place to nap. Bring the gentleman whatever he asks. Tab is under Vidal.


Kian







Report: Mineral Survey
Derc,

Based on the latest data, I suggest investing in baryte. Market's going to be flooded with sulfur and when the mining starts, baryte's the perfect weighing agent.

If you want to collect samples, there's a deposit in Draullir.


-M


Terminals[]



Thanks
To: Kian Dagher
From: Reyes Vidal

Thanks for the terminal and the room. As always, you're a king among men.


Reyes





Re: Thanks
To: Reyes Vidal
From: Kian Dagher


King among men? Hardly. It's not like I gave you them for free. But you're welcome all the same. See you for drinks later.





Job for you
To: Reyes Vidal
From: Lachlan Faulkner

Mr. Vidal,

Word around Kadara Port is you're a man who can acquire and deliver items quickly and discreetly. I have need of such a man. Write me back if you're interested.


Lachlan





Re: Job for you
To: Lachlan Faulkner
From: Reyes Vidal

I'm sure we can work something out. Meet me at Kralla's tomorrow night. I like to meet my clients face to face.

Until then, please don't send any details through mail. I make it a practice not to leave a paper trail.


Reyes





