


Supplies are being stolen for delivery to the exiles. The Nexus dock manager has asked you to look out for hidden caches around Nexus and Hyperion. 
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Search Hyperion Habitation Deck
2.2 Search Hyperion Cryo Bay
2.3 Search The Commons Area


3 Aftermath
4 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Talk with the Dock Manager on Nexus after Pathfinder Ryder has visited Kadara Port.
Note:  This mission must be completed before Meridian: The Way Home as the Cryo Bay will become unavailable.

Walkthrough[]
The following three areas can be searched in any order:

Search Hyperion Habitation Deck[]
Hyperion Habitation Deck (+50 XP, +29 AVP )

Search Hyperion Cryo Bay[]
Hyperion Cryo Bay (+50 XP)

Search The Commons Area[]
Common Area (+50 XP)
At each location, Ryder finds a container with stolen supplies. Scan each container to complete each objective. SAM informs the Dock Manager.
When the last container is scanned the task completes.

Aftermath[]
After some time, Ryder receives an email from the person who stole the supplies giving the reason for the theft.
After acknowledging the e-mail, nothing further happens.





Stolen Nexus Goods
To: Ryder
From: Anonymous

Pathfinder Ryder. I'm the one who was storing supplies around the Nexus for delivery to Kadara. They were intended for hard-working and downtrodden exiles just trying to survive. The Initiative cast them out with almost no regard for their future. Whole families, many of whom were only barely implicated in the revolts, or left because they couldn't bear to separate from loved ones.

I was able to make several deliveries before you took it upon yourself to shut down the pipeline--enough to buy them some time and hopefully get them back on their feet. I've left my post on Nexus and joined these disenfranchised people. I wanted you to know that this was done out of concern and caring, not avarice or greed. Please don't take it out on the people of Kadara.


Good luck to you.


Rewards[]
None



