


Angaran Special Forces have issued a series of challenges. Time to impress.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Battle the Remnant

2.1.1 Defeat all the Remnant
2.1.2 Optional: Beat Andraknor's time


2.2 Battle ancient ferocious creatures
2.3 Retrieve sensitive data

2.3.1 Download sensitive data


2.4 Return to Andraknor on the Nexus


3 Rewards
4 Bugs


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: A Trail of Hope II

This task is given by an angara on the lower section of the Cultural Center on the Nexus (marked with a ) after the rescue of Moshae Sjefa and receipt of information about the establishment of an angaran embassy on the Nexus.
Andraknor is a member of the Heskaarl, the Angaran Special Forces. He asks Pathfinder Ryder about the N7, as they are a similar group, and challenges them to try out Heskaarl training.

Walkthrough[]
The task requires you to complete three objectives on Voeld. At each objective site there is a beacon that needs to be activated in order to commence the task. The beacons project a safe zone much like regular forward stations in case you need a brief time-out from the omnipresent cold hazard.

Battle the Remnant[]
Head to the navpoint located west of the Southern Holding Site (next to the Remnant monolith). Activate the beacon. 

Defeat all the Remnant[]
You will have to defeat 15 Remnant enemies coming in waves. One of them is a Destroyer. 

Optional: Beat Andraknor's time[]
Andraknor challenges Ryder to beat his record and a countdown timer shows this.
Ryder receives +730 XP (when all the Remnants were destroyed in a shorter time than the record, 730 XP was awarded, but it's unclear if that includes XP for breaking the record).

Battle ancient ferocious creatures[]
Head to the navpoint northeast of the Eroesk ruins. After activating the beacon, three fiends attack. A fourth roaming nearby might get involved in the fight as well. Eliminate them.
Ryder receives +448 XP.

Retrieve sensitive data[]
The location is in the southeast area of the map at the Southern Holding Site. Start the challenge by activating the beacon near the site. Go into the kett base and get a full copy of its files to Andraknor.

Download sensitive data[]
Three file locations are marked on the map. When you start the download, waves of kett reinforcements arrive. Defend the position until the download is completed. Enemy composition is standard Chosen, Anointed, and maybe Destined, dropped from troop ships in 3s or 4s.
If you're playing Mass Effect: Andromeda Multiplayer, you'll see that you'll be doing three Hack objectives around the base. There's no time limit, though you'll have effectively unlimited enemies as they'll keep arriving as long as you're not finished. The objectives are also exposed to the cold even if you activated the vault, though you may detour inside the nearby building to replenish your life support after finishing with a hack. Since it's in your best interest to finish quickly it may be prudent to keep long-range weapons and abilities on your arsenal to minimize having to get out of the Hack radius to retaliate against the enemies who are hanging back.
In this site are four big orange cages that can be opened to get access to loot containers.
Upon completion of this segment you will receive +440 XP.

Return to Andraknor on the Nexus[]
When the three challenges have been completed, speak with Andraknor. He is impressed: "I can see clearly why your N7 would be the best of the best." He says if Ryder ever tires of being Pathfinder, he'd be honored to call them a Heskaarl.

Rewards[]
+1330 XP
Bugs[]
In the early versions of the game many players reported issues with this mission making it impossible to complete regardless of Ryder's gender. Update 1.10 has rendered the problem irrelevant.




