


Team Support is a passive Tech skill in Mass Effect: Andromeda.

Skill Ranks[]
Improves defenses and support for the whole squad through kinetic barrier generator and hardsuit enhancements.



Rank

Label

Icon

Description

Bonus


1

Shields

    

Improves maximum shields for the user and all squadmates with each skill point invested in the Tech Skill Group.

+2% Team Shields


2

Shield Recovery

    

Improves shield regeneration for the user and squadmates, as well as health recovery speed for tech constructs, with each skill point invested in the Tech Skill Group.

+2% Team Shield Delay Reduction
+2% Team Shield Regeneration
+2% Tech Construct Health Regeneration



3

Support

    

Improves shield restoration and defensive effects from powers with each skill point invested in the Tech Skill Group.

+2% Power Restoration & Defense


4

Squad Offense

     

Increases damage from tech constructs and squadmate powers.

+20% Squadmate Power Damage
+20% Tech Construct Damage



4

Support

     

Improves all shield restoration and defensive effects.

+20% Power Restoration & Defense


5

Team Recovery

     

Reduces shield regeneration delay and improves shield regeneration rate for the user and squadmates. Increases health recovery rate for tech constructs.

+15% Team Shield Delay Reduction
+15% Team Shield Regeneration
+15% Tech Construct Health Regeneration



5

Tactical Revive

     

Grants Damage Resistance during squadmate revival and for 5 sec afterwards. Restores shields to maximum upon reviving a squadmate. Both effects also apply to successfully revived squadmates.

Damage Resistance During Revive: 120
Damage Resistance after Revive: 60



6

Defense Grid

     

Increases Damage Resistance for each conscious squadmate tech construct within 8 m. The increase applies to the user and those squadmates and tech constructs.

Damage Resistance per Ally: 6


6

Life Support

     

Improves health regeneration rate for the user and nearby squadmates and tech constructs for 3 sec after using a tech power.

Health Regeneration Bonus: 200%
Health Regeneration Cap: 50%


Player Notes[]
Mechanics
Team Support is a passive skill that is always active.
Strategies
Rank 6 Defense Grid might not pair well with the Remnant VI skill; unless Ryder carefully manages it, the construct will not be within 8 meters most of the time.
Rank 5 Team Recovery gives the Remnant VI skill a direct upgrade.
Rank 6 Life Support is also a very powerful skill even if Ryder is using the Assault Turret (skill).
Ryder and multiplayer characters with Rank 5 Tactical Revive will survive almost anything, resisting 60% of all damage.
Rank 6 Life Support combines very well with the Bio-Converter augmentation that drains 5% of Health when the clip is empty to refill the Ryder's clip. This skill and augmentation combination is one of the most useful without a downside.
Rank 6 Life Support synergizes very well with Auxiliary Systems Rank 6 Shield Feedback by allowing Ryder to periodically restore both Health and Shields simultaneously when using any Tech power.
Rank 6 Life Support requires using a Tech Skill to activate the health regeneration. Prioritize Tech skill selection to a fast recharging skill or a skill that has a variable recharge time based upon usage to maximize the ability to regenerate health. Flamethrower is an excellent Tech skill to use as Ryder can shoot a tiny burst of flame and then stop without having a lengthy recharge time. Flamethrower's very short recharge time when fired in burst mode combined with the Bio-Converter's recharging ammo is an excellent pairing when Rank 6 Life Support is taken. Ryder can simply shoot until out of ammo, automatically spend the 5% health to refill ammo, and then flame to restore the lost health.
Energy Drain is also a very effective skill to combine with Rank 6 Life Support. With the Rank 6 Team Drain of Energy Drain, Ryder can jury-rig something very similar to Cora Harper's Shield Boost skill to restore both health and shields.
Availability[]
Single-player: Pathfinder Ryder - Unlocked With 9 Skill Points in Tech Skills or Leader Training
Multiplayer: N/A






Mass Effect: Andromeda Skills




Combat

Assault Rifles • Barricade • Combat Fitness • Combat Tools • Concussive Shot • Flak Cannon • Omni Grenade • Pistols • Shotguns • Sniper Rifles • Trip Mine • Turbocharge


Tech

Assault Turret • Auxiliary Systems • Cryo Beam • Energy Drain • Flamethrower • Incinerate • Invasion • Offensive Tech • Overload  • Tactical Cloak • Team Support • Unknown (Remnant VI)


Biotics

Annihilation • Backlash • Barrier • Charge • Containment • Lance • Nova • Offensive Biotics • Pull • Shockwave • Singularity • Throw





