






This article is about Tela Vasir in general. For information and tactics on fighting her, see Tela Vasir (enemy).








Tela Vasir
Spectre

Race
Asari


Gender
Feminine


Appearances
Mass Effect: FoundationMass Effect 2



“The councilors might complain about our methods to soothe their consciences, but they never look too closely.”
Tela Vasir is an asari Spectre and powerful biotic known for her investigation of the theft of confidential galactic economic data from the Citadel Council's Ministry of Finance in 2185, and her role in the dissolution of a slave trading ring in the city of Aegohr on the salarian colony of Nasurn. Vasir is later present after Liara T'Soni disappears from her apartment on Illium, where she meets Commander Shepard.

Contents

1 Mass Effect: Foundation
2 Lair of the Shadow Broker
3 Trivia
4 See Also







“I guess I want to stand for something too.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Foundation follow.




Mass Effect: Foundation[]
Tela Vasir obtained a tip-off from a Cerberus turncoat purporting to hold highly-confidential secrets about the paramilitary organization. She met this informant at the Citadel, who wanted assurances for her safety. Vasir led the informant inside a Spectre office, took the data disc, and left the informant to her own devices as she went out to confirm the disc's contents. 


Mistrusting the turncoat, Vasir doubled back with reinforcements and caught her downloading Commander Shepard's classified Spectre files. The initial interrogation proved fruitless until Vasir stripped off the informant's disguise: Rasa in a blonde wig and artificially-lightened skin. Vasir's Spectre authority plus Rasa's DNA and prints meant that the Cerberus agent won't be setting foot in any Council-controlled city. She gave Rasa a choice: life in prison or working for her against Cerberus.
Vasir gave Rasa the information she originally came for, plus a virus payload that should force the Illusive Man to confer with the Spectre. If the virus doesn't activate, or if Cerberus was warned in any way, she threatened Rasa with turning her into a wanted criminal. 
Days later, Miranda Lawson took the disc from Rasa. Vasir and her cohorts attempted to activate the virus though Miranda successfully counteracted it. Vasir's plans against Cerberus were thwarted for the time being, but the incident left her alerted to their interest in Shepard.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Lair of the Shadow Broker[]

When Liara T'Soni requests that Commander Shepard meet her at her home on Illium, Shepard arrives to find Liara missing and her home ransacked. Local authorities have established a crime scene and demand that Shepard leave; however, Tela Vasir intervenes, dismissing the officers using her authority as a Spectre. She then allows Shepard to investigate the area, explaining that Liara had fled only moments before.
After Shepard finds a recording of Liara and a contact named Sekat discussing the Shadow Broker's next move and planning a meetup at the Dracon Trade Center, Shepard and Vasir head there in the hopes of intercepting Liara. After a bomb detonates inside the building right as they arrive, Vasir splits off, stating she will cover the building from the roof down from her skycar. Shepard and the squad make their way through the Dracon Trade Center while battling the Shadow Broker's mercenaries, finally arriving at the Baria Frontiers offices where Liara was meeting her contact. As the squad enters, they find Sekat dead and Vasir taking care of a merc, saying she arrived too late to stop the merc from killing the informant. 


Vasir asks if they found Liara, to which Shepard replies that they didn't. Just then, Liara emerges from the shadows, gun drawn at Vasir. After Liara reveals that Vasir tried to kill her, Shepard and the squad also turn their weapons on the Spectre, realizing they had been duped. Liara surmises that Vasir killed Sekat to take his intel on the Shadow Broker's location. Vasir reveals an OSD, proving Liara correct, but then Vasir uses her biotics to shatter a window to escape, hurling the glass at the squad along with a slur directed at Liara, who shields the team with her own biotics. Vasir is tackled by Shepard and they fall out of the window. After a brief melee, Vasir shakes off her pursuers and escapes with Liara in hot pursuit, leaving the squad to deal with more of the Shadow Broker's mercs.
Shepard and the squad fight back through the Trade Center, pursuing Vasir until they reach the landing pad. There, Vasir and Liara are already engaged in a firefight. The outnumbered Vasir calls her skycar, jumps into it, and speeds off. Shepard and Liara give chase through the skies of Illium; Vasir tries many methods of throwing them off, but she ultimately collides with another skycar, crash-landing on the roof of Hotel Azure. Badly injured, she radios for backup and limps away, with Shepard's team right behind her.


After fighting through more of the Shadow Broker's mercs, they finally corner a bleeding Vasir in a plaza, where she takes a hostage. After some verbal sparring, Shepard's squad and Vasir fight it out for real. After a protracted battle, Vasir takes one too many hits and crumples against a wall. After Liara retrieves the disk that Vasir had taken from Sekat, Vasir engages Shepard in one last battle of words. When Shepard accuses her of selling out the Council, Vasir claims that she's nothing like Saren Arterius, stating that she's willing to do a few favors for the Broker in exchange for his information that has ensured stability in Citadel space. 
Before she dies, Vasir argues that Shepard's partnership with Cerberus is no different, if not worse, than hers with the Shadow Broker. She offers a few examples of Cerberus actions to drive this point home, which can vary based on the Commander's own experiences with the group, such as whether Shepard investigated the events surrounding Admiral Kahoku's death, whether Shepard was the sole survivor of a thresher maw attack on Akuze and discovered that the attack was staged by Cerberus, and whether Shepard visited the Teltin facility on Pragia.

Trivia[]

While searching for clues in Liara's apartment, it's possible to interact with Vasir for several comments from her; one of these comments is, "Have you ever wrestled a varren for money?" The same comment is made by the Renegade variant of the Shepard VI that can be interacted with at the holding area of the Citadel docks in Mass Effect 3.
In the original version of Mass Effect 2, when Vasir collapses against a wall as she's dying, she leaves a bloody smear. These bloodstains are absent in Legendary Edition.
See Also[]
Cerberus Daily News
"Citadel Council Withholds Economic Reports" storyline
"Over 200 Alleged Slavers Arrested on Nasurn" story



