


Terminus Armor is a non-customizable armor set in Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3.

Contents

1 Mass Effect 2

1.1 Description
1.2 Acquisition
1.3 Player Notes


2 Mass Effect 3

2.1 Description
2.2 Acquisition
2.3 Player Notes


3 See Also


Mass Effect 2[]


Terminus Armor






Effects
+10% Storm Speed+10% Reserve Ammunition+15% Shield Strength


Starting Health
200


Starting Shields
287


Availability
Pre-Order Bonus Item



Description[]
Terminus armor is environmentally sealed with an independent air supply for use in space and extreme planetary conditions. Its onboard microframe computer runs a suite of battle management software. To prevent detection by passive thermal sensors, body heat is channeled to the base of the feet and dispersed into the ground.
Increases storm speed by 10%.
Increase shields by 15%.
Increases all weapon's reserve ammo by 10%.

Acquisition[]
The armor is included in the Terminus Weapon and Armor downloadable content pack. An e-mail from the Illusive Man is also received as part of the package.
In Mass Effect Legendary Edition it can be purchased from Harrot's Emporium for 12,000 credits.




Terminus ArmorShepard,

Our armor technicians found a high-performance suit for you that was manufactured in the Terminus Systems -- that is to say, it isn't exactly legal in Citadel space. It's been delivered to your quarters so you can try it on.


Hope you like the color.


Player Notes[]
The storm speed, reserve ammunition and shield strength bonuses are all fairly useful for combat-oriented classes (Infiltrator among others), since it allows the player to get to cover faster, and get off more shots. However, the total lack of any bonuses to weapon damage should be noted.
Mass Effect 3[]


Terminus Armor






Effects
+15% Melee Damage+15% Ammo Capacity+30% Shields


Availability
Batarian State Arms



Description[]
The Terminus Armor is environmentally sealed with an independent air supply for use in space and extreme planetary conditions. Its on onboard microframe computer runs a suite of battle management software. To prevent detection by passive thermal sensors, body heat is channeled to the base of the feet and dispersed into the ground.

Acquisition[]
The Terminus Armor can be purchased at Batarian State Arms in the Citadel Holding Area for 50,000 credits without discounts, or through Procurement terminals located in the Normandy's shuttle bay or Armax Arsenal Arena for 55,000 credits without discounts.

Player Notes[]
The armor sets bonuses to Melee Damage, Shield Strength and Ammo Capacity make it an ideal choice set for tanking Vanguards who like to close the distance on their opponents. Melee Damage compliments the close quarters powers and heavy attacks of Vanguards and the increase in ammo suits the Vanguards signature weapon, the shotgun, most of which tend to have less standard ammo than other classes of weapons. The Shield boost offers the Vanguard extra protection when charging headlong into the thick of things.
Shotgun-wielding Infiltrators may also want to consider this armor.  The Ammo Capacity boost is useful with low-capacity shotguns such as the Claymore, and the bonus to Melee damage can further enhance the Shotgun-toting Infiltrators abilities at close range.
See Also[]
M-490 Blackstorm Projector
Mass Effect 2 Arsenal: Armor




Mass Effect 2 Armor




Armor Customization • Armor Upgrades


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Assault Armor • Collector Chitin Armor  Inferno Armor • Terminus Armor • Kestrel Armor





Mass Effect 2 Downloadable Content




Promotional

Blood Dragon Armor • Collectors' Weapon and Armor • Inferno Armor  M-29 Incisor Sniper Rifle • Terminus Weapon and Armor


Cerberus Network

Zaeed - The Price of Revenge • Normandy Crash Site  Cerberus Weapon and Armor • Arc Projector • Firewalker Pack


Missions

Kasumi - Stolen Memory • Overlord • Lair of the Shadow Broker • Arrival


Additional Content

Alternate Appearance Packs •  Equalizer Pack • Aegis Pack • Firepower Pack  Mass Effect: Genesis • Recon Operations Pack • N7 Complete Arsenal Bundle





Mass Effect 3 Armor




Armor Customization


N7 Armor • Blood Dragon Armor • Cerberus Ajax Armor • Cerberus Armor • Cerberus Nightmare ArmorCerberus Shade Armor • Cerberus Spirit Armor • Collector Armor • Inferno Armor • N7 Defender ArmorReckoner Knight Armor • Terminus Assault Armor




