


The Terminus Systems are located on the far side of the Attican Traverse, beyond the space administered by the Citadel Council or claimed by the human Systems Alliance. These systems are populated by a loose affiliation of minor species, united only in their refusal to acknowledge the political authority of the Council or adhere to the Citadel Conventions.
Their independence comes at a price; the Terminus is fraught with conflict. War among the various species is common, as governments and dictators constantly rise and fall. The region is a haven for illegal activities, particularly piracy and the slave trade. The prevalence of batarian criminal gangs has led to the batarian language becoming a "lingua franca" in the Terminus. The Terminus Systems have no government, but the Omega station serves as a trade capital.
At least once a year, a fleet from the Terminus invades the nearby Attican Traverse. These attacks are typically small raids against poorly-defended colonies. The Council rarely retaliates, as sending patrols into the Terminus Systems could unify the disparate species against their common foe, triggering a long and costly war.
Despite the dangers, Citadel races have not been deterred from traveling through and even extensively colonizing the Terminus Systems themselves. Humans, turians, salarians, elcor, asari, and volus each have a sizable colonial presence there. Since the Citadel Council's authority is nonexistent, these colonies are often fully independent from any interplanetary government. The Terminus Systems also encompass the homeworlds of the quarians and the vorcha.
Before the Alliance expanded into the Voyager Cluster, the turians mapped the Terminus Systems in great detail using an interferometric array, with one end in the Attican Beta cluster and the other at the planet Gromar.

Contents

1 Locations in the Terminus Systems

1.1 Clusters
1.2 Homeworlds
1.3 Colonies
1.4 Space Stations
1.5 Other


2 See Also
3 Trivia


Locations in the Terminus Systems[]

Clusters[]
Crescent Nebula
Eagle Nebula
Far Rim
Hourglass Nebula
Omega Nebula
Pangaea Expanse
Perseus Veil
The Phoenix Massing
Pylos Nebula
Rosetta Nebula
The Shrike Abyssal
Sigurd's Cradle
Titan Nebula
Valhallan Threshold
Homeworlds[]
Heshtok
Rannoch
Colonies[]



2181 Despoina
Altakiril
Bekke
Chalkhos
Cyrene
Erinle
Fehl Prime
Ferris Fields
Freedom's Progress
Garvug
Haestrom
Illium
Kopanis
Korlus


Lorek
New Canton
Nutus
Parasc
Sanctum
Selvos
Talis Fia
Terapso
Thunawanuro
Triginta Petra
Xerceo
Zada Ban
Zesmeni

Space Stations[]
Heretic Station
Omega
Other[]
Mu Relay
Nemean Abyss
Omega 4 Relay
See Also[]
Attican Traverse
Earth Systems Alliance Space
Inner Council Space
Outer Council Space
Trivia[]
Terminus is Latin and can be translated as "boundary stone". It can also be used to describe the end of a road.



