


Terra Firma is a human political party who opposes humanity's growing integration into the galactic community. The members believe humanity needs to stand alone if they are to remain strong. They cite Shanxi and the First Contact War as examples of why humans can't trust aliens, and mark Armistice Day with a protest every year. Part of their platform involves opposing the teaching of alien languages in schools.
Terra Firma was founded after contact was made with the turians, and humans became aware of just how many races comprised Citadel space. The party was created in response to a genuine concern that humanity's individuality might be diluted or lost after too much integration into alien cultures. The party's manifesto isn't particularly extremist, but they tend to be a magnet for xenophobes and radicals, and the party does nothing to curtail the racist comments of its members, under the pretext that the party will not abridge its members' freedom of speech.







“Salvation comes with a cost.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Ascension follow.




Mass Effect: Ascension[]
In 2173, Terra Firma was involved in a kickback scandal involving Nashan Stellar Dynamics. The fallout forced the current party leader, Inez Simmons, to resign. The candidates for party leader, Charles Saracino and Claude Menneau, began vigorous election campaigning; Menneau was ahead in the polls by three points when he mysteriously disappeared while en route to Shanxi for a political rally. No trace of his ship and crew were ever found, though theories and rumours abounded. With his rival removed, Saracino became the only candidate and was elected party leader.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Mass Effect[]
Aboard the SSV Normandy, Commander Shepard can discuss Terra Firma's ideas with Ashley Williams. Ashley is uncomfortable around aliens but gets angry if Shepard compares her opinions to Terra Firma's; she calls them a bunch of jackals who have strayed from the founders' original ideals, and hopes her reasons are more rational than theirs.
Shepard can also encounter a Terra Firma protest on the Citadel led by Charles Saracino himself (which forms part of the assignment Citadel: Our Own Worst Enemy). He is trying to get a political seat and asks the Commander to endorse him for his cause.

Trivia[]
When translated from Latin, terra firma means "solid Earth".
In the Lair of the Shadow Broker DLC for Mass Effect 2, the Cerberus dossier lists two of the Illusive Man's sexual liaisons as Staci and Stephi Strong, the "Terra Firma Twins."



