


The Thanix series is a line of turian-designed weapons intended primarily for ship-to-ship combat.

Contents

1 Specifications

1.1 Development
1.2 Design


2 Mass Effect 2
3 Mass Effect 3
4 Trivia









“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Specifications[]
Development[]
After the Battle of the Citadel in 2183, human and turian volunteers spent three months clearing the station's orbit of debris. During the cleanup, the turians secretly salvaged Sovereign's powerful main gun along with much of the weapon's element zero core. Eleven months later, the turians introduced the Thanix, a scaled-down version of the weapon.

Design[]
The Thanix's core is a liquid alloy of iron, uranium, and tungsten suspended in an electromagnetic field powered by element zero. The molten metal, accelerated to a significant fraction of the speed of light, solidifies into a projectile as it is fired, hitting targets with enough force to pierce any known shield or armor. The gun can fire reliably every five seconds. The weapon's relatively small size allows it to be mounted on most fighters or frigates, including the Normandy SR-2, giving them firepower rivaling that of a cruiser.

Mass Effect 2[]
The Normandy SR-2 is capable of being upgraded with a pair of Thanix Cannons, allowing it to deal significantly higher damage during ship-to-ship engagements. If the upgrade is purchased, the Normandy will be able to destroy the Collector Cruiser during the Suicide Mission with minimal damage.







“There won't be an Earth left to save...” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 3 follow.




Mass Effect 3[]
By the time of the Reaper invasion of the galaxy in 2186, the Thanix and its variations have seen widespread use among Alliance fleets and beyond. An up-scaled version has also been made for use on dreadnoughts.
A variant on the weapon, known as the Thanix missile, is seen during the final battle for Earth. It is a ground-based missile apparently based on similar principles as the starship-mounted Thanix cannon.

Trivia[]
The in-game codex entry for the Thanix cannon in Mass Effect 2 claims the weapon can fire every five seconds, however the voice-over for that entry claims it can fire every fifteen seconds.



