


Site 2 engineers knew they were in desperate circumstances when the kett became aware of their attempts to settle. Engineers tried to research technology that could help them fight the kett.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Investigate Resilience
2.2 Search Site 2 for the secret research project
2.3 Defeat the kett
2.4 Recover Components
2.5 Scan the research project


3 Rewards


Acquisition[]
This mission can be acquired through different methods:

In Site 1: Promise, there is a datapad that can be found in the lower floor of the building near the Tempest.





Log: Site 2 Work Crews
Login: Chief Engineer Grace Lito

My radiation shields are dead, but I finally made it to Site 1. Promise is a ghost town. Damn it, there’s got to be something the storms and rat-pack salvagers didn’t take away.

Without the project, Site 2 is done for. Our crews get torn apart faster than we can patch things up. And we hear that ‘’thing’’ at night—can’t pretend it’s the weather any more. Wind doesn’t roar like it’s hungry.

Update: Managed to pry enough components out for the project and patch up my shields. I’m heading home to Site 2. If it’s still there.


END LOG


Examining the datapad will begin the mission.
Alternatively, this mission will start automatically if you enter Site 2: Resilience.
Walkthrough[]
Investigate Resilience[]
Go to Site 1: Promise to start the mission or straight to Site 2: Resilience.

Search Site 2 for the secret research project[]
Site 2: Resilience is near the lake on Eos. The failed outpost was a victim of a kett attack that wiped out most of the colonists stationed there. A recreation of a conversation between two colonists can be found in the second story of the main building. Examining the only available door on the first floor reveals that it was locked from the outside.
Entering the building, a power terminal in the second room can be activated. Upon activation, SAM informs the Pathfinder that a bulletin was released at the time of shutdown; it simply said "Run." The locked door opens, revealing a Fiend, while a kett dropship approaches the site. Prepare for a rather difficult fight with a tough enemy.

Defeat the kett[]
Fight off the kett and the released fiend. Another kett dropship approaches soon after the first, so be prepared.
Once the kett have been cleared, you can continue to search Site 2 for the secret research project. Through one of the now-opened doors, a console can be interacted with to reveal that the secret project was building something to fight the kett with. The project could be finished, with the right components.

Recover Components[]
Three components must be found and Ryder automatically begins with one recovered. The other two components will be marked with . The second component can be found just a few steps away in the next room. The last component requires a bit of a drive or walk around the lake to a crashed Initiative shuttle.

Scan the research project[]
With all of the components collected, return to Site 2. Near the console that Ryder interacted with before, scan an Adapted Initiative Core Tech (+100 ) to complete the mission.

Rewards[]
+270 XP
+29 AVP 
+2% Eos viability



