


For other similar facilities, see Docking Bay (disambiguation).





“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




The Docks handles Kadara Port's shipping traffic and incoming visitors. It is managed by Colt Dalton. The Tempest berths here whenever Pathfinder Ryder has business on Kadara.
Contents

1 Layout
2 Personnel
3 Missions
4 Datapads
5 Terminals


Layout[]
The docks encompasses the numerous landing pads built into the cliffs of the mountain Kadara Port is situated on. These cantilevered pads are sturdy enough to accommodate frigate-sized starships like the Tempest. Some of these pads are decorated with kett heads on spikes to serve as a warning to anyone who would challenge the rulers of the port.
The Tempest's landing pad is connected to a two-story buffer zone. A transit console next to the entrance allows travel to Kadara Slums below. Also beside it is a fast travel station for navigating other areas of the port. In front of the entrance is the only Research Center in the port.
Kadara Market can be entered from the docks through doors from either the first floor or the second floor. The second floor is the observation deck, shared with the market; to the west and above the dock entrance is a small jail that's also used as an impromptu interrogation/beatdown chamber. This jail also has a terminal containing Outcast directives.
Ryder's team often loiter here at various points. Liam Kosta initially negotiates Nomad "parking fees" with Colt Dalton during the first visit to Kadara. Later he moves to the second floor. Next to the entrance Cora Harper does guard duty over the Nomad before moving to the market. Later when shipments of supplies come by, Vetra Nyx hangs around the docks inspecting them.
The datapads near Dalton show the cargo manifest of whatever he's handling at the time. This changes from time to time as befitting the nature of a busy port.

Personnel[]
Colt Dalton
Grayson Wessler
Missions[]
Heleus Assignments
Mixed Messages
Out of the Frying Pan
The Search for Ljeta
Datapads[]



Cargo Manifest
ID Number: 469778321
Manifest Tracking Number: 002682344 KAD
Consignee: Annea
Vessel Name: Vatvagr
Point of Loading: Kadara
Point of Unloading: Elaaden

Contains:
Water Vats - 600 lbs
Salvage - 300 lbs
Adhi Skins - 20 lbs
Parsec Pies "For the On-the-Go Space Traveler": Simulated Apple Flavor - 5 lbs


Note: If Annea asks why it's five pounds of pocket pies instead of six, tell her that they were damaged in transit. - CD







Cargo Manifest
ID Number: 572492115
Manifest Tracking Number: 003157728 KAD
Consignee: Big Taran
Vessel Name: The Svalinn
Point of Loading: Elaaden
Point of Unloading: Kadara

Contains:
Scrap Metal - 500 lbs
Ammunition - 200 lbs
Grenades - 50 lbs

Kaerkyn Shells - 10 lbs







Cargo Manifest
ID Number: 739238733
Manifest Tracking Number: 007334257 KAD
Consignee: Elora Narantis
Vessel Name: Tavura's Gain
Point of Loading: H-047C
Point of Unloading: Kadara

Contains: 

Waived. Approved By: Dalton, Colt







Cargo Manifest
ID Number: 814751223
Manifest Tracking Number: 008352230 KAD
Consignee: Umi Henon
Vessel Name: N-342 "Red Eye"
Point of Loading: Nexus
Point of Unloading: Kadara

Contains:
Fresh Ice - 120 lbs
Strawberry Cider - 40 lbs
Andromeda Ale - 40 lbs

Dirty Squirrel - 20 lbs







Cargo Manifest
ID Number: 829388126
Manifest Tracking Number: 008259276 KAD
Consignee: Kaetus
Vessel Name: N-676 "Albatross"
Point of Loading: Nexus
Point of Unloading: Kadara

Contains:
Horosk - 40 lbs
Peanut Butter - 9 oz
Vid - "Saving Mads Maximus" - 4oz


Note: Deliver straight to Outcast HQ


Terminals[]



Concerning the Collective
Unless given explicit orders to do otherwise, no one is to engage potential Collective members in Kadara Port. Yes, Sloane and I are aware they have operatives and recruiters in Kralla's and the market. Yes, we are going to do something about it—when the time is right. The Outcasts enjoy our current position because Sloane made the right move at the right time. It'll be the same when we decide to get rid of the Collective.

That being said, if you're outside the cease-fire zone, feel free to blast the bastards. Spirits know they deserve it.


Kaetus





No Angaran Recruits
Our recruiters have reported a number of angara interested in joining our ranks. Some of you have even encouraged them. Stop. At least for right now, the Outcasts are for exiles only. Not all angara are happy about our rise to power. Until we know that our "new friends" can be trusted, they are not Outcast material.


Kaetus





Outcast Code of Conduct
Been getting a lot of reports lately about misconduct towards the locals. These actions will not be tolerated. Sloane's trying to build a better Heleus. One the Nexus promised, but failed to deliver. Wearing Outcast colors means you represent her. And I won't have anyone representing Sloane dishonorably. Since it seems like we've all got different meanings of honor, I've made a code of conduct. Follow it or deal with me.

1. No disrespect towards Sloane or your fellow Outcasts.
2. Public beatings are for disciplinary measures only.
3. Drunkenness is fine to an extent.
4. Don't antagonize the angara, but don't let them get away with shit either.
5. You got a friend interested in joining the Outcasts? Great. Send them to the recruiter. All new members must go through proper channels.
6. No unauthorized contact with the Nexus.
7. No association with the Collective.
8. No sleeping on shift.
9. No fucking on shift. Off shift, do whatever you want. But I don't want to know about it.
10. Protection fees are non-negotiable. All fees must be collected on time. Don't charge more or less.

If anything is unclear, see me, but none of this should be hard.


Kaetus





