


The Art of the Mass Effect Trilogy: Expanded Edition is a 264-page concept art book published by Dark Horse Comics LLC in 2021 containing BioWare artworks and developer commentary for the games Mass Effect, Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3.
Originally released in 2012 under the name The Art of the Mass Effect Universe, the 2021 edition contains over 90 additional pages of artwork focused on the trilogy's downloadable content and Mass Effect 3's multiplayer. Developer commentary found in both editions was written by Casey Hudson, Derek Watts and Chris Hepler, while the Expanded Edition's extra commentary was also contributed by Karin Weekes and Ryan Cormier.

Contents

1 Jacket Copy

1.1 2012 Edition
1.2 2021 Edition


2 Contents
3 References


Jacket Copy[]
2012 Edition[]
The Mass Effect games are an epic of groundbreaking immersion, introducing the richest science-fiction universe of our generation. Now BioWare and Dark Horse are proud to invite fans deeper than ever into the Mass Effect saga!
Featuring never-before-seen concept art and commentary by BioWare on the games' characters, locations, vehicles, weapons, and more--including Mass Effect 3--The Art of the Mass Effect Universe is the most complete companion available to gaming's most compelling series!

2021 Edition[]
Expanded with never-before-seen artwork, this new edition delves deeper than ever into the sci-fi saga that changed video games forever.
Contains extensive new material from the DLCs for all three games--including the award-winning Lair of the Shadow Broker from Mass Effect 2 and the fan-favorite Citadel from Mass Effect 3. Experience the evolution of the aliens, planets, ships, and technology that define this iconic science-fiction universe. The developers who brought BioWare's masterpiece to life take you from the earliest design sketches to the meticulous final renders.
Brimming with concept art and commentary, this expanded edition is the ultimate companion to one of the greatest series in the history of gaming!

Contents[]
After a brief preface signed by "The Mass Effect Team at BioWare" found only in the Expanded Edition, the book opens with separate introductions by Casey Hudson and Derek Watts. The rest of the work is divided into the three games, containing felt sketches, design concepts, production paintings, 3D renders and accompanying commentary for the trilogy's visual elements.
Developer commentary can be found on most pages, which was written by the following people, who have all worked on the trilogy except for Cormier:

Casey Hudson: game director
Derek Watts: art director
Chris Hepler: writer
Karin Weekes (Expanded Edition only): editor
Ryan Cormier (Expanded Edition only): editor
A copy of each game's commentary can be found here:

The Art of the Mass Effect Trilogy/Mass Effect
The Art of the Mass Effect Trilogy/Mass Effect 2
The Art of the Mass Effect Trilogy/Mass Effect 3
References[]
Ebook: ISBN 978-1-50672-164-4
Hardcover: ISBN 978-1-50672-163-7
BioWare Gear Edition: ISBN 978-1-50672-576-5



