


An exile named Derc hired you to check in on a missing surveyor, who was collecting baryte samples in Draullir.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Travel to the surveyor's last known location in Draullir
2.2 Scan surveyor's corpse
2.3 Return to Derc


3 Rewards
4 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Speak to Derc in the Tartarus nightclub in the Kadara Slums. He sits in the corner on the bottom floor marked with a .

Walkthrough[]
Speaking to Derc, Derc asks if Ryder wants to make some easy credits. A surveyor that he sent out hasn't returned and Derc wants to know what happened. Note:  No credits are given as a reward despite what Derc states during the conversation.

Travel to the surveyor's last known location in Draullir[]
The navpointleads to a big cave system in the Draullir region. Note:  This is the same cave system leading to the Collective Base. Someone has set up floodlights powered by generators - too much for one surveyor to carry. 
There are three datapads, a number of mineral nodes, and multiple lootable containers located throughout the cave system. Two datapads are irrelevant to the mission, and the last can be found next to a titanium mineral node on a small wooden shelf atop some rocks.




Personal Log: Nebar

New Entry: Found the perfect site to take a Baryte sample for Derc. A little high up, but I've got steady feet.


END LOG


Eventually you will find the surveyor's corpse. There are some Rylkors and Wild Adhis in the cave near the corpse.

Scan surveyor's corpse[]
The surveyor apparently broke his neck from a fall. Scan the corpse and SAM downloads the collected data to deliver to Derc.

Return to Derc[]
Ryder reports what happened and gives the baryte samples data to Derc.

Rewards[]
+270 XP
+29 AVP 
+2% Kadara viability
Trivia[]
Should you discover the Collective base while doing this mission before firmly siding with the Collective, you will be greeted by Lynx at the door - one of the people who set up the floodlights in the cave, as indicated by one of the other datapads.



