




Thessia

Region
Milky Way / Athena Nebula / Parnitha





Planet View


Orbital Distance
0.94 AU


Orbital Period
0.9 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
1.025


Radius
5,940 km


Day Length
27.6 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.96 atm


Surface Temp
25 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.1 g


Mass
0.947 Earth Masses


Satellites
0


Location: Milky Way / Athena Nebula / Parnitha System /  Second planet


Homeworld

Species
Asari


Population
5.5 billion


Population (Orbital Stations)
33,000(Pop. estimates are pre-invasion)



Prerequisite: Priority: The Citadel II (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Missions
4 Additional Information
5 Trivia


Description[]
The asari homeworld has been called the "crown jewel of the galaxy," the "apex of democracy," and the "beating heart of galactic love." Its republics have a remarkably low incidence of war, disease, violent crime or famine, riding a stable economy backed by wealthy colonies and Thessia's vast element zero reserves. Traces of eezo in the water and soil are so common that most life on Thessia has adapted to its presence.
Thessia's fortunes have been upended by the Reaper assault. The communications infrastructure that forms the backbone of the society's e-democracies has been eliminated. Millions are without power, water, or food, a move to coerce the asari into widespread surrender. This is a necessary part of the Reaper strategy, since husks alone have difficulty disarming or capturing a population full of biotics.

Codex Entry[]





Audio: Thessiahttps://masseffect.fandom.com/wiki/File:Codex_ME3_-_Thessia.ogg

The asari homeworld, Thessia, is the core of the largest economy in the Milky Way. The planet's reserves of element zero are so vast that they affect its price galaxy-wide. Because life on Thessia evolved in an eezo-rich environment, the world is home to a wealth of both biotically active and eezo-resistant species. Travel to the planet is strictly controlled, but smuggling remains an issue.
Thessia is host to varying republics instead of a single government and, although each maintains a formidable military, it is notable for having long been free of internal or external wars. The asari are renowned for their cultural and political dominance, and they excel in ambassadorial ventures. They have a strong presence in Citadel politics and galactic policy. However, it is the unfocused political structure of their homeworld that has left the Thessians unprepared for the current conflict.

Missions[]
Mission: Priority: Thessia
Additional Information[]
Thessia is a terminus on the Illium-Thessia shipping lane. It also has a distinctive fashion sense that has found patrons even from non-asari like Edan Had'dah.
Food and drink on Thessia is served with small amounts of element zero which has no known benefits for non-biotic individuals. As such, visitors are recommended to stick to the visitors menu. One drink that can be ingested by asari and non-asari alike is called elasa.
Known plant species from Thessia include the common irssal, a blossom that smells like honey. Seeds from this plant have been transported 2.5 million lightyears away by Milky Way colonists to the Andromeda galaxy in the hope of starting a garden there someday. 

Trivia[]
"Thessia" is adapted from Thessaly. Roman writers such as Ovid and Seneca held that the "witches" of Thessaly had the power to draw down the moon.
The Mass Effect 3 multiplayer map Firebase Goddess is located on Thessia.
Thessia is a mission location in the N7 HQ Galaxy at War mini-game for Mass Effect 3.



