






This article is about the enemy unit. For the page about these creatures in general, see Thresher Maw.

Contents

1 Mass Effect

1.1 Legendary Edition
1.2 Tactics

1.2.1 General
1.2.2 In the Mako
1.2.3 On Foot
1.2.4 Legendary Edition




2 Mass Effect 2

2.1 Tactics




Mass Effect[]







Thresher Maw




Type
Organic


Armament
None (Melee)


Abilities
 Acid Spit


Health
Very High


Locations
Antibaar, Chohe, Edolus, Nepheron, Nonuel, Presrop, Trebin, Xawin


Thresher Maws can be encountered on a number of uncharted worlds and can be fought in the Mako or on foot.
Thresher maw nests are uniquely identifiable by a distinct profile of landscape, which consists of a few hills and pits no higher or deeper than 2 meters on an otherwise perfectly flat circular area of land about 50-75 meters in diameter. Although barely discernible from radar, it becomes more apparent once it is seen from above. From below, it may appear as a jagged circular terrace. Thresher maws will not rise from the ground upon the hills or pits in their nest. They will retreat below ground if you leave their circular area for longer than about 5 seconds.

Legendary Edition[]
Thresher maws now spit a spread of acid balls rather than a single one, and they can lead their target. 
When a thresher maw goes underground, it stays underground longer. A trail of rocks and upended earth now indicates the direction the creature is moving in.
The thresher maw has a chance to deploy multiple Sensory Tentacles around its lair when it retreats underground. These tentacles are immobile but can deal damage on targets within striking range. The thresher maw then actively seeks out its potential victims' location and will deal the killing blow from below when near enough. 

Tactics[]
Unlike other enemies, such as Geth Armatures, thresher maws do not have to be even close to looking in your direction to perform any of their attacks, so do not attempt to drive into or melee attack one. Their claws can deal very heavy damage up to the point of instant death whether on the Mako or on foot.

General[]
The ranged acid spit attack is fairly easy to dodge in the original Mass Effect as it is a slow projectile. It must be noted however that evasion relies heavily on timing and positioning -- if you are too close, you may not have enough time to react. You should also keep in mind that that the acid spit completely bypasses any shields. While both in the Mako and on foot, you can be substantially damaged or destroyed in a single direct hit. Further details on evading it are discussed below.
Whether combating a thresher maw in vehicular or infantry combat, you should be aware of your odds of survival. Keep enough distance between you to enable you to determine the path the acid spit is taking. While circle strafing, your party members prefer to stop longer than you and don't even try to dodge the incoming attacks, so try to shoot while continuing moving in a linear fashion. They may still run into acid spit aimed for you, and you may take splash effect damage off of them, so find a semi-circular pattern that avoids this. Be certain to stay out of its melee range, as it extends much farther than it would appear. A single melee attack from a thresher maw can inflict high damage or result in instant death. Don't attempt to determine its melee range, just stay back.
When moving through thresher maw nests, be on your guard. Thresher Maws will only surface where the ground is perfectly flat.  They will abruptly rise from the ground after a short delay once you intrude on their nest. Once you hear a thresher rising up, look for it and put some distance between yourself and it quickly. In some cases it can take a while to load its first acid attack when it surfaces, especially if it is facing the other way, so you do have time to look around and point your gun towards it. Also, keep in mind that if the thresher maw surfaces directly beneath the Mako, you will die instantly. Watch where it surfaces and avoid that general area to prevent a sudden and unfortunate end. Stick to the hills and divots to ensure you avoid getting killed this way. You should only try to attack one from a distance, because their melee attacks are devastating and rarely leave survivors.
While it has a sizable range due to powerful infrasound senses, a Thresher Maw will retreat underground when targets are beyond a certain distance. It appears that Thresher Maws only retreat underground and resurface if you move too far from them in the Mako or if you move a significant amount in any direction (closer or further away).
On most maps with a thresher maw, it is possible to kill the same maw twice and get twice the experience points. To do this, simply kill the maw immediately as it surfaces, before its health bar appears over its head. It will vanish instead of dying, and you'll get the experience for killing it. Then, advance on the nest to trigger it again, and it'll appear again with a slight bit more health. Killing it a second time results in the death animation (it falls over before disappearing) and another large dose of experience points. This works on foot, as well, but is more difficult to achieve that way.
In the Mako[]
It's a good idea to use the Mako's cannon as much as possible in combination with the coaxial machine gun, in order to produce the most damage.
The acid spit will damage the Mako outright, so if you happen to get hit, you will see the HUD show damage (red flashes) on the Mako display even though the display shows your shields at full.
One strategy to evade the acid from a thresher maw is circle-strafing. If you must stop to snipe, time your stop immediately after a spit has passed you by, or otherwise when the acid has a trajectory that won't hit you or your team. It may go underground, if so find a hill and listen for when it next comes up. Repeat until it is killed.
You may also simply drive forward and reverse alternately to move away from the path of the acid with each attack, preferably while side on, but front on works as well. You may move back to where you were once the projectile makes impact, but this is not necessary - you need move only once for each projectile.
Each time it spits acid at you, simply use the Mako's boosters to jump over the attack. If timed correctly, you should be able to avoid the attack ad infinitum. You may incur a very small amount of splash damage using this technique but the amount is negligible at best. If you continually hop over the acid while shooting (movement caused by aiming will not affect this method) you should be able to defeat any Thresher Maw with ease.
If you are trying to use the stationary method or if you are caught unawares in a nest, you can buy some time by causing it to relocate. This can be done by staying in motion until you hit the edge of the nest before pointing the Mako around to attack. Usually the Thresher Maw will surface, retreat, and resurface closer to you even if you are just outside the nest. If not, it may have registered you too far away and all you have to do is lure it back out by driving into the nest area and out again. Alternatively, if you can get behind a low hill (highly dependent on available terrain), you can have cover and the Thresher Maw will either just sit still or spit ineffectually at the cover. At this point, you can exit the Mako and, still keeping behind cover of course, patiently shoot it to death.
For example, when fighting the thresher maw on Edolus, driving up the hills along the far edges of the maw's nest causes it to disappear underground and not resurface until you return to the flat land.  When you do come back, it will usually resurface near the center of the next, allowing you to fire on it and run back up the hill.  Repeating this process keeps the maw from closing distance on the Mako.  It's ineffective on foot due to the long distance from the point where the thresher notices the party to the point where it won't follow you.
On Foot[]
If a thresher dies while you are in the Mako, regardless of the method used to kill it, you will receive significantly less experience. This is not affected by using damage over time powers on foot, before reentering the Mako and having it die then, for example. On the other hand, it does not preclude using Mako-weapons to burn it down before dealing the killing blow on foot. If you want to get the 'on foot' experience reward but still use the Mako's firepower, get the thresher maw down to as little health as possible using the Mako, then get out and finish it off. Finally, remember that if you are on foot and your Mako is destroyed by acid spit (if it's on fire it probably has been) do not get back into it, as this will result in an instant death.  Go to the map screen and return to the Normandy from there instead.
As thresher maws do not have armour and special resistances, even your pistol can kill one. Use damage boosting skills as much as possible. Using Warp can reduce the thresher maw's defenses considerably. Even if you can't see the thresher's life meter or bullet impact effects on it, rest assured you're doing damage as long as you're aiming at it.
When on foot, the acid's splash effect may kill you, even if it doesn't hit you directly. High level Soldier health regeneration, and/or Medical Interface that provides toxic resistance can mitigate this considerably, as well as use of Immunity. Surviving a direct hit from an acid splash requires a very high amount of health, as it completely ignores shielding.
If you are fortunate enough to be a Bastion, try using Stasis to buy yourself some time to damage it.
If you are a high enough level (40-60), it can be easier to take it down on foot due to the high weapon and power damage at these levels. It seems to work best with weapons that are upgraded with an ammo upgrade that causes chemical damage.
Legendary Edition[]
Since there is no more experience penalty for killing enemies in the Mako, dealing with thresher maws should be done conventionally within the vehicle. Engaging it on foot is merely for personal bragging rights.
The maw's multiple acid globs means there are more chances for you to get hit. They are often aimed at your anticipated direction, so two ways to evade them are by immediately backtracking or by timing use of the Mako's new rear boosters to quickly clear out of the way.
When the thresher maw deploys Sensory Tentacles it won't stop chasing you unless all the tentacles are destroyed or you move out of its region. The latter option requires less effort to do, and there is no experience reward anyway for destroying the tentacles.
The thresher maw can still be tracked when it goes below the surface via its telltale ripples on the ground. It can also be seen on the scanner.
The maw does not heal, at least not instantly, if you leave the maw's immediate vicinity or even return to the Normandy. Thus you can pull back to make repairs or other changes and return to resume the battle.
Mass Effect 2[]







Thresher Maw




Type
Organic


Faction
Creature


Armament
None


Abilities
 Acid Spit


Armor
Very High


Locations
Tuchanka



See also: Grunt: Rite of Passage
As part of Clan Urdnot's Rite of Passage, a single thresher maw must be fought on foot by Grunt and his krantt on Tuchanka.

Tactics[]
It stays outside the playable area, and so melee damage is not a concern. However, its acid spit attack travels much more quickly and is much harder to avoid. The attack will destroy most of the cover in the game; however, the two pillars at the end of the platform will remain intact and will block the attack (as will the platform itself if the thresher maw is attacking from the extreme left or right side), so get behind those and slowly whittle down the thresher maw's armour. The thresher is immune to the effects of Stasis.
Warp is effective against its armor. On lower difficulties the M-920 Cain can take out the first 50%, making the fight considerably easier. The Collector Particle Beam is also effective.



Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis




Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




