






This article is about Shepard's apartment on the Citadel in Mass Effect 3. For the similar location on Intai'sei in Mass Effect, see Shepard's Apartment.


The Personal Apartment is a location on the Citadel, located in Tiberius Towers on the Silversun Strip. The apartment originally belonged to David Anderson, who was going to retire there with Kahlee Sanders. When the Normandy SR-2 is docked at the Citadel for repairs, the Admiral gives the apartment to Commander Shepard to use as a place to relax during shore leave. The apartment features a weapon bench, armor locker, and private terminal, as well as a catalog for changing the apartment's furnishings, which can be bought from Home Spun on the nearby Strip. Scattered throughout the apartment are audio recordings of portions of Anderson's biography, including part of an unfinished interview with Khalisah al-Jilani.
Squad members and other characters can be called to the apartment after receiving messages from them. 

Contents

1 Areas

1.1 Ground floor
1.2 First floor


2 Furniture and Accessories

2.1 Furniture
2.2 Accessories


3 Notes for Anderson Biography
4 Anderson ANN Biography
5 Private Terminal

5.1 Apartment interaction requests
5.2 Summons to elsewhere on the Citadel
5.3 Miscellaneous


6 Missions


Areas[]
The apartment consist of several areas on two floors. It has three bedrooms, each with its own bathroom; two bar counters; a living room with a desk; a gallery; a kitchen; and several seating areas. There are also several decorative plants spread across the apartment.

Ground floor[]
There is a large seating area consisting of two sofas and an isolated wall with a fireplace. Above the fireplace there is a shelf with books on it. Behind that wall is another sofa in front of a large screen. Next to it is the main bar.
 A piano is located next to the door.
The kitchen is also located on this floor. However, because of the first floor, the ceiling is lower here. In the middle of the kitchen there is a cooking island, while in the back there is a large table with a Normandy SR-2 model on it.


One of the bedrooms and bathrooms can be found behind the kitchen to the right. A closet, a punching bag, and a pull-up bar are located here.
To the left of the kitchen there is a smaller living room which contains a smaller counter, a gambling table, and a desk with the Private Terminal and Catalog. The private terminal has two functions: the first is to read email in the same way as the terminals on the Normandy, and the second is for inviting people to the apartment after receiving a pertinent message from them. 
If Shepard wins the Plush Volus doll from the Claw Game, it will appear on the bookshelf near the gaming table. If Specialist Traynor won the tournament she entered at the arcade, she will place her trophy on the bookshelf if she was invited over.

First floor[]
A modest art gallery overlooks the main seating area. It is located right above the kitchen.
Behind the gallery there is a smaller seating area with two sofas and a coffee table.
At the back of the floor there is Shepard's bedroom, which is the largest. The armor locker and the weapon bench can be found here. The bathroom - which can only be accessed via the bedroom - has a hot tub instead of a shower. If Samantha Traynor is invited to visit the apartment, she will invariably use the hot tub (either with or without Shepard); if she isn't in a romance with Shepard (or a male Shepard is present), she will find an overnight bag belonging to Kahlee Sanders in the bathroom.
The last room on the floor is the third bedroom.

Furniture and Accessories[]
Similarly to Shepard's cabin on the Normandy SR-2, the personal apartment can be customised with various items. However, it has more customisation options and all items that can be added to it are available solely from shops and events in the Silversun Strip.

Furniture[]
Furniture purchased from Home Spun allows customisation of various aspects of the apartment such as bathrooms, seating, and shelves. While each category can be changed individually, only the entire category of furniture can be changed at a time, not the furniture in individual rooms.

Accessories[]
Various other accessories can be obtained by winning prizes from the Claw Game at Castle Arcade (for which prizes are sponsored by Home Spun) and inviting squadmates over.

A volus doll can be obtained by obtaining the purple prize tier for the first time at the Claw Game. It is visible on the shelf next to the bar.
Multiple music tracks can be obtained for the stereo system by winning green and blue prize tiers at the Claw Game. Each tier has a number of tracks available only from this tier. The cost of playing the game (500 credits per game) the number of times required to obtain these can be recovered by obtaining all prizes for blue and higher tiers, and then winning those orbs as they will then return credits starting at 500 credits for the lowest tiers.
A trophy is left on the shelf next to the bar by Samantha Traynor after she is invited to visit the apartment. This is the same shelf as the volus doll and both items are displayed side by side if obtained.
There are temporary accessories visible only immediately after certain visits.

A photo of Thane Krios is left on the piano after Kolyat's visit.
Glyph can play Liara's song on the piano while Liara is on the couch after being invited to the apartment.
Notes for Anderson Biography[]
Childhood

“Ahem. Okay. So... tombstone data. Admiral David Edward Anderson. Not sure why anyone would be interested, but thanks for asking. I was born in London on June 8th, 2137, the last of three children born to Ursula and Paul Anderson--a nurse and a flight mechanic, respectively. That's a little dry. Someone's going to spice this up, right? Never been much for the spotlight. Anyway... where was I? 

It was a second marriage for my parents. They were almost fifty by the time they had me. My mother worked shifts, so my father would often take me to the base. While he worked, I watched transport ships and fighters take off. Worked his whole life around space travel, my father, but he never left Earth, not for a day. He was a good man. But that's just a side note. Don't put that in. Who is it, Kahlee? Yes, I need to take that. I hope this is what you're after. I'll get to the more interesting N7 stuff next time.”


Enlisting

“What was... What was I talking about? Early days, right. People ask why I joined the military. Everyone talks about honor, duty, sure. But that's never the whole truth. It's a hundred little things that add up to commitment. I joined because of a dog. Yeah, a dog. This patchy, mean, son of a bitch that used to bark at me every day on my way to school. It'd snarl, and I'd start running. Scared the hell out of me. I was just a kid. I remember being in a bad mood one morning. Angry. I can't recall why. When that dog started in on me, I snapped. Started barking right back. We both kept at it until we had nothing left. Dog never bothered me again. Why'd I join the military? Sometimes, you just gotta howl to make things right.”


Contact

“No, no. It's fine. I've got a few minutes. First Contact War? Yeah, I was there. My first real combat. First for a lot of us. I remember one night, early in the war, strapped to my seat as our transport approached the LZ. Everyone was dead silent. Just the sound of breathing. Good men. I'd trained with all of them. We were always joking and horsing around. But not this time. Just the rattle of the shuttle and that heavy breathing. Everyone was thinking the same thing: we're off to fight alien invaders. Aliens! Think about that. We all grew up wondering what was out there, if we were alone in the universe. Now we knew. We weren't alone. And we were in trouble. 

So there we were, about to face an enemy as different and unknown as we could imagine. I knew I had to say something, keep the men relaxed. So I turned to the soldier beside me, Hendricks I think, and asked him how his mother was doing. "Fine," he said. "Why?" "Cause I heard your momma's so ugly the marines thought she was a turian... almost shot her." That got a few smiles. Then Hendricks turned to me and said... "Hell Anderson, I heard it was a picture of your momma that started this goddamn war in the first place. Scared the turians shitless." Everyone had a good laugh at that. And the boys fought great that night. 

Sometimes that's all it takes. A joke. A pat on the back. Just a little reminder that everything's gonna be okay.”


N7

“Embarrassing moments? I got more of those than anyone will ever know. Only way to learn something. But if I had to pick one to share... I had just gotten promoted to N7. Full of myself. King of the castle. Found myself buying drinks for undesirables in some run-down bar in the Wards. They toasted my recent promotion. Hell, they would've toasted batarian slavers if it got them more drinks. About the time my money ran out, my new friends turned on me. 

I was outnumbered. Things didn't look good. My plan to get out of there involved lots of punching. That worked for a while. Then a table hit me... or I fell down. When I came to, I saw a salarian putting the rest of the troublemakers down. A salarian! Moved like a damn cat, I swear. When everybody was out cold or running, he walked over and helped me up. "N7?" he asked. "Yes, sir," I replied. He looked over my collection of unconscious friends, nodding. "Not bad, human," he said. Then he walked away. I had met my first Spectre. 

Learned an important lesson that day. No matter how good you think you are, there's always somebody quicker, faster, and a helluva lot smarter than you just around the corner. That little lesson's kept me alive more than once since then.”


Turian Experience

“The turians? Hmm. I might not always see eye to eye with the politics and the individuals, but I have great respect for the turian military. Any Alliance soldier lucky enough to take part in their training programs will certainly be better for it. Their precision, skill, and discipline come together in a way that's second to none. Not that I'm faulting our own people or training.. It's just that, after fighting turians in the First Contact War, years later I had the opportunity to observe and train on Palaven.

It's a unique experience to put yourself in the squad of a turian commander. My commander was an uncompromising bastard named Bartus Aurix. If you can find him, just ask how the platoon I commanded was trounced in his strategy games. Humbling, but I've used what I learned that day, many times. The xenophobes will have their say, but I think it's vital that we do more of this kind of cross-species training. 

There you go. Heh. And if you do find General Aurix, let me know--I owe him money.”


Relationships

“You never asked me about this, but... My wife just called. My ex-wife... Nobody likes to talk about the toll that long months apart can have on military relationships. She wasn't military. She couldn't handle it. But it's not even about military and non-military, damn it. It's space flight. Space flight--finding the mass relays--miracles of engineering. Human imagination rising to meet our desires. We pay a price for that curiosity, that drive. Our relationships suffer. People we love suffer. But that's reality and it's worth the cost. I must have thought it was... I guess I still do. In the end, you just hope you made the right choices.”


Normandy SR-1

“You asked me to talk about the SSV Normandy--the Normandy SR1. As commander of the Tokyo, I was consulted on the Normandy's design and on board for her initial training exercises. The average person probably doesn't know that the Normandy was a joint project with the turians. Acting CO Elli Zander was no diplomat. She ran out of patience with turian posturing and politicking during construction. The chief architect of the drive core, Octavio Tatum, and his team of turian engineers were in the CIC for final training exercises. Tempers flared when Zander pushed the limits of the stealth system, waiting to vent the IES well past what Tatum was comfortable with. I tried to calm the situation, but it still ended with the turian scientists in shackles and a human/turian fistfight in Chora's Den later. 

Funny now... When I first laid eyes on the Normandy, she was the most beautiful thing I had ever seen. Day after that training run, Admiral Wright found me on the bridge. "She's yours," he said, "Can't trust her to Zander. Send me a list of crew from the Tokyo you'd like and prep for your first mission." Short command, thanks to Saren. Still. One of the highlights of a long career.”


Normandy

“The Normandy? A brand new ship. My ship. You don't forget that moment. The first time you're standing there, the whole crew looking to you for direction? Unforgettable. I'd led men and women before that. Seen a lot of combat already. Always managed to find my way home in one piece. Do that a few times, you begin to think you know better than the next guy. Maybe you do. I don't know. But if you're lucky, really lucky, you find yourself on a good ship, in front of a good crew. A crew you can trust with your life. Gifted, disciplined, brave. All of them eager to set sail into the endless black ocean. I still remember my XO asking what my orders were. "Shepard," I said, "Let's see what we can find."”


Shepard

“Sure, I can talk about Commander Shepard. Big topic. There's been a lot written about the Commander, but most of it isn't true. People are quick to judge. They don't know the whole story. I don't even know the whole story. But I know the man/woman. Worked with him/her, fought with him/her. Trust him/her with my life. Shepard's had some rough patches. Who of us hasn't. He's/She's been forced to fight a lot of battles alone. God only knows how he/she got out of some of that. Makes your head spin. 

Thing is, you never heard a complaint. Never once got "No, sir. I can't do that." He/She never hesitated. Few people know what Shepard's been through. I'd like to think I come pretty close. And I worry sometimes he/she forgets: there's a whole bunch of people who lose sleep over him/her getting back home. Maybe it doesn't need to be said. Maybe we're too dumb to say it.

Soldiers like the Commander are rare. Men/Women like Shepard... even more rare.”


New Questions

“Okay. I have your new questions here... "As a leader, do I ever feel that the ends justify the means? Spirit of law over word of law?" I'm not going to touch that with a ten-foot pole, but I think I know what you're after. 

You're referring to the way I, uh, arranged to have the Normandy released to Commander Shepard before the Battle of the Citadel. I'm not sure how valuable hindsight is to the military. Obviously, it worked out for the best. Without the Normandy and Commander Shepard free to do what they needed to do--what we needed them to do--Saren might have taken the Citadel. 

I think it's clear what a different galaxy this would be if that had happened. I did what I had to. If I had been wrong, I would've gladly accepted the repercussions. The real trick is never being wrong. Ha. If you're looking for more action and less philosophy in these notes, let me know.”


Anderson ANN Biography[]
Khalisah al-Jilani:

“A few months ago, I had a chance to sit down with one of Earth's most decorated soldiers, Admiral David Anderson. He was kind enough to answer my questions and talk about his career. Today the Admiral is on Earth, leading the defense of our home against the Reapers. We have no communication with him, or any soldiers on Earth. But we can't forget what they're doing for us. Tonight's show is dedicated to all of the soldiers out there, fighting and dying to keep us safe.

Admiral Anderson, today marks the thirtieth anniversary of the N7 program. Can you describe your first day of training in this now-famous program?”


Anderson:

“The Interplanetary Combatives Training program is all business from day one.”


Khalisah al-Jilani:

“How so?”


Anderson:

“We're given basic gear, then separated and stranded on an asteroid with no nav data. The test ends when the last person runs out of oxygen.”


Khalisah al-Jilani:

“Sounds daunting. What happens to the ones who run out of air first?”


Anderson:

“Out of the program. The best N7s can survive alone, but work together to survive even longer.”


Khalisah al-Jilani:

“That's very impressive, Admiral. Deep space survival training. That has to be... so difficult. All of it would take such strength of character, just plain strength. But then, you seem like a strong person.”


Anderson:

“I'm sorry, is there a question in there?”


Khalisah al-Jilani:

“Well, does the program make the man, or do you think you were born for this?”


Anderson:

“It's a bit of both, I suppose. 

Every soldier reaches a point in their career, sometimes more than once, when they are asked to give more than they ever thought they could. That moment is the test. I've seen men and women, almost sure to fail, persevere long past the point of breaking. That experience changes them. Others, with all the gifts and abilities, fail in that moment. Sometimes, they pick themselves up and carry on. Sometimes, they're just done.”


Khalisah al-Jilani:

“What about you? What was your moment?”


Anderson:

“I've had a few. None of which I'd like to share. But I think the toughest tests are still ahead of me.”


Khalisah al-Jilani:

“What makes you say that?”


Anderson:

“Call it a hunch.”


Khalisah al-Jilani:

“Soldier's intuition?”


Anderson:

“Something like that.”


Khalisah al-Jilani:

“Do you trust your intuition? I mean, do you follow your heart over your mind?”


Anderson:

“Well, huh, it depends on the day. No... I suppose if I were to be honest I do trust my instincts. 

The problem is war isn't orderly. And the enemy is never predictable. Even the most experienced veteran is going to find themselves in situations they haven't trained for. In those instances, and there's more than I'd like to admit, your instincts are the only thing keeping you alive. That, and the men and women you're fighting beside.”


Khalisah al-Jilani:

“But soldiers are only as good as their leader, isn't that true?”


Anderson:

“Yeah. A good leader can make an okay squad great. A bad leader... well, war tends to make examples of them.”


Khalisah al-Jilani:

“What makes a good leader, then?”


Anderson:

“Hmm... A good leader is someone who values the life of his men over the success of the mission. But understands that sometimes, the cost of failing a mission is higher than the cost of losing those men.”


Khalisah al-Jilani:

“That's a terrible line to have to walk.”


Anderson:

“Yes, it is. But war is a terrible thing.”


Khalisah al-Jilani:

“Thank you for your time, Admiral.

The remainder of this interview was to take a more personal look at Admiral Anderson's life. It wasn't finished when the Reapers invaded. We can only hope that the Admiral, and the soldiers under his command, survive to tell us the rest of their stories.

I'm Khalisah al-Jalani [sic]. Thank you for watching.”


Private Terminal[]
Apartment interaction requests[]



Shore Leave Activities


From: EDI

Shepard:


As part of my education, I think it would be appropriate if you and I participated in rituals found in all human cultures. Reply, and we can meet at the new apartment.







Just like old times...


From: Jack

Hey!


Had fun kicking some holographic ass with you. Good to see you haven't lost it without me around to keep you in line. I've got a bit more leave, so let me know if you're around and want to kill some time.







Got something to show you.


From: James Vega


Hey, next time you're in that sweet new apartment with time to kill, give me a call. Got something I'd like to show you.







Let's go out and be normal people.


From: Kaidan


You know what you need, Shepard? You need a night where you get to just hang out and try to be normal for a few hours. Let's get something to eat. After that, we could go down to the strip or whatever you want. Let me know. 







Memorial Service


From: Kolyat Krios

Commander,

I was somewhat surprised to receive a comm call from the Council. They would like to hold what humans call a memorial service. Where it is held does not matter so much as who attends. I would like you to be there, as well as those people on the Normandy who knew my father. 

I understand at human services, people speak well of the dead. It seems appropriate for you to conduct this part as the commander of the Normandy. To be honest, I am somewhat nervous I might recall an inappropriate memory in front of everyone.


Thank you. This would mean a great deal to me.







Night off?


From: Liara T'Soni

Shepard,


I thought it might be nice to spend some time away from the Normandy. I don't have anything particular in mind. Perhaps we can meet at your apartment and decide from there?







New Digs?


From: Miranda Lawson

Shepard,


Would love to see it. Can't be any worse than that pokey little captain's cabin on the Normandy. Invite me over sometime. I'm in the area.







How are you?


From: Samara

Shepard,


I overheard yet another news report about you today, and I thought I'd write to see how you're doing. I am currently on the Citadel, so if there is any way that I can be of assistance to you, please do not hesitate to call.







It's Mom. Please Call.


From: Hannah Shepard

Sweetheart,

It's been a long time since we spoke. Too long. Admiral Hackett recruited me to work on the Crucible. Maybe you knew that, I don't know, but that's where you'll find me.

Could you call me please when you get a chance? I would love to talk to you.


Mom







Biotiball Goodwill Games


From: Steve Cortez

Shepard,

The Seattle Sorcerers are taking on the Usaru Maestros in a biotiball game. Should be epic! You recently acquired an apartment with a sweet vid screen. Coincidence? 


James and I don't think so. You provide the couch, and we'll provide the refreshments. Just let us know.







Housewarming?


From: Tali'Zorah

Shepard,


Next time we're on the Citadel, I'd love to come by. No rush, but it's nice to have a place there that you can call home.







Rain Check?


From: Comm Specialist Samantha Traynor

Thanks for sticking around to watch me go head-to-head with T'Suzsa. Sorry again for messing up our lunch plans.


Love to get a rain check! Let me know whenever you're free, and I'll come by.




Summons to elsewhere on the Citadel[]



Official Input Required


From: C-Sec Central HQ
RE: REPORT #2843-AD3/F4

Commander Shepard,

Your presence has been requested concerning an incident involving a krogan identified as Grunt. Please report to the C-Sec officer on patrol on the Silversun Strip for additional details. 

Officer Johnson

C-Sec Communications







Go time!


From: Ashley Williams


With all this stuff about pretenders, I figured there was one more thing we had to settle. Meet me at the casino bar. You scared?







Drinks?


From: Garrus

Shepard,


When you have a free moment, I thought we'd check out the bar scene around here. Let's meet at the Silver Coast Casino, upper floor. Hopefully no dead arms dealers this time!







Combat Sim


From: Jack

Shep!


I hear this Silversun Strip place has a combat simulator, and I felt like kicking the crap out of something. Get your ass down here if you're game.







Come hang out!


From: Jacob Taylor

Shepard,


So the Normandy's in dry dock? Seems like the perfect chance to hang out and find some trouble. Meet me outside the arcade on the main level... if you're game.







Your Assistance...


From: Javik

Commander,


I have received an interesting proposal that I wish to discuss with you. Meet me outside the casino at the far end of what these primitives call the Silversun Strip, although it isn't made of silver or near a sun. Stupid primitives.







Dinner at sushi place on me!


Hey Shepard,

I've got a few things I wanted to go over with you. With the Normandy in dry dock, I figured we could meet up at that Ryuusei sushi place down in the Wards. I hear it's the best.  


Joker







Pencil me in.


From: Miranda Lawson

Shepard,


Care for a night out? Let's get dressed up and meet in the casino. I'll be the one in red.







All work and no play...


From: Steve Cortez

Shepard,


Now that we've got a little down time on the Citadel, I wanted to share something with you. I'm taking the shuttle down to Silversun Strip. Meet me there.







Lunch?


From: Comm Specialist Samantha Traynor

Commander,


If you'd like to meet up for lunch, I'll be in the Citadel arcade area. Hopefully see you there!




Miscellaneous[]



From Your Friends at Armax Arsenal Arena


From: Armax Arsenal Arena Team

Dear Commander Shepard,

We here at Armax Arsenal are huge fans of yours, and we can't tell you how much we value your efforts in the fight against the Reapers. In an effort to raise both awareness and morale here on the Citadel, we've recently reskinned the holographic enemies in our simulator to look like Cerberus troops. We got a big surge of viewer interest when we added geth enemies a few years back after their attack on the Citadel, and we're adding Reaper forces as well.

We understand how busy you are, but if you ever feel like unwinding on shore leave and giving our viewers a taste of what a real military veteran can do, we would love to have you come compete. You've got a complimentary pass waiting for you whenever you're interested.

Thanks again,

Your friends at Armax Arsenal




Missions[]
Mission: Citadel: Shore Leave
Mission: Citadel: Identity Theft I
Mission: Citadel: Identity Theft II
Mission: Citadel: Party



