









Tonn Actus




Race
Turian


Type
Organic


Armament
Shotgun


Abilities
 Immunity Shield Boost Carnage


Health
Moderate


Shields
Moderate


Locations
Tuntau


Tonn Actus is a turian pirate and profiteer who specialises in collecting krogan armor and artifacts, especially anything from the Krogan Rebellions. Wrex hates him because Wrex's family armor, passed down from generation to generation, is part of Actus' collection.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Wrex had planned to look for Actus in the Argos Rho cluster to recover his armor and kill the pirate personally, but Actus had several bases scattered around and Wrex's travels with Commander Shepard delayed his search. His best lead is the planet Tuntau in the Phoenix system. Shepard can volunteer to go to Tuntau and recover the armor from Actus in his hidden base. Actus is eventually killed in the firefight, allowing Wrex to retrieve his armor.

Tactics[]
Tonn Actus has between three and four bars of shielding; as is the case with all Mass Effect enemies, it will regenerate over time. His health also regenerates and he will often use Immunity as well as Shield Boost. He can take cover quite often and flank you if given the chance to do so. However, neither he nor his men will ever leave the room they're in, allowing you to safely retreat back to the entrance chamber.
Tonn Actus is equipped with an assault rifle and a shotgun, although due to the cramped surroundings of the room he will only equip the assault rifle if you disable the shotgun with Sabotage. He can also launch Carnage from his shotgun, which is difficult to dodge in that area.
Short-range stunning abilities like Lift, Throw and Neural Shock work well during that engagement. Sabotage and Damping are also helpful to disable their abilities and force them to switch weapons.
Actus is always positioned on the top balcony, conveniently near a fuel tank, without Immunity on, at the beginning of the fight. Using Sabotage or Overload will severely damage or kill him instantly, making the fight much easier. As an added bonus, the blast will usually kill the snipers that would otherwise bother you. Failing that, just shoot the tank to get the same results.
If Wrex is around, he'll helpfully point out which one of the mercs is Actus. He's aggressive and will usually descend to the ground floor after the start of hostilities.
It is perfectly possible to raid his base and kill him without Wrex in the squad, or even bringing the assignment to your attention. You can still recover the armor and talk to Wrex about it aboard the Normandy.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





