




Trident

Region
Milky Way / Hades Nexus / Hoplos





Planet View


Orbital Distance
2.0 AU


Orbital Period
2.8 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
1.02


Radius
6,905 km


Day Length
27.6 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
1.4 atm


Surface Temp
27 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.1 g


Mass
1.28 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Hades Nexus / Hoplos System /  Third planet


Colony

Species
Human


Capital
New Cousteau


Colony Founded
2144 CE


Population
6,800,000



Prerequisite: Project Firewalker: Volcano Station (Mass Effect 2)

Prerequisite: Priority: Rannoch (Mass Effect 3)

Contents

1 Description
2 Mineral Deposits
3 See Also
4 Trivia


Description[]
A human-dominated world with over 95% of its surface covered by salt water, Trident is home to a dazzling array of life. The oceans are filled with creatures ranging from tiny bivalves to mammoth vertebrates unequaled even by Earth's whales and ichthyosaurs. Small archipelagos create what little land there is, and its valuable real estate is fought over constantly.
Underwater extraction operations have recovered a number of valuable minerals from the ocean floor, including iridium, uranium, and dust-form element zero. A largely lawless world, Trident is home to a rogues' gallery of unethical corporations exploiting the resources of the planet and actual rogues -- criminals, slavers and mercenaries -- working the shadows.
TRAVEL ADVISORY: Due to extreme weather conditions, all traffic to the surface is grounded. Trident spaceport control predicts this condition will persist until the end of hurricane season.

Mineral Deposits[]
Initial Scanner Result: Rich



Mineral

Amount

Approximate Value


Palladium

Medium

5,700


Platinum

High

20,000


Iridium

Medium

5,600


Element Zero

None

0

See Also[]
Cerberus Daily News
"Cerberus Lab Discovered on Trident" storyline
"Manhunt for Cerberus Operative on Trident" storyline
Trivia[]
The trident was the main weapon and symbol of the Greek God Poseidon (Roman Neptune), god of the sea, storms, and earthquakes. It is also the astronomical symbol of the planet Neptune.
New Cousteau appears to be named after Jacques-Yves Cousteau or his family of famed oceanographers and mariners.
The Trident colony is listed as founded 2144 CE, five years before humanity's first known expedition through any mass relay in 2149.
Trident is a mission location in the N7 HQ Galaxy at War mini-game for Mass Effect 3.



