






This article is about the multiplayer class in Mass Effect: Andromeda. For the multiplayer class in Mass Effect 3, see Turian Havoc Soldier.

This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 


Turian Havoc Trooper






Race
Turian


Rarity
Rare


Availability
Unlockable



Propulsion expert that specializes in aerial combat.
The Turian Havoc Trooper is a bit more...boisterous than the average turian soldier. She's very good at what she does, and enjoys it just a little too much to be cold and professional about it.

Skills and stats[]





 Health: 500     Shields: 350


Powers

Incinerate


Turbocharge


Flak Cannon


Passives

Munitions Training


Aerial Assault


Veteran Bonus


Melee

Omni-Blade


Bonus Stat

Max Health


Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
The Havoc Trooper's Munitions Training and Aerial Assault skills' generous buffs toward weapon stability and accuracy make her a suitable candidate for unstable rapid-fire weapons like the Cyclone and the Soned. Coupled with buffs toward hovering, she can function as an "aerial" turret for the amount of time she can spend in the air.
These weapons typically eat through a lot of ammo, making the Havoc Trooper one of the main consumers of Ammo Packs.
Since Scope mods induce tunnel vision and Havoc Trooper potentially spends a lot of time hovering, equipping them should only be done if intending to clear out very long-distance enemies and/or teammates can be depended on to defend against incoming close-range attackers.
Kett[]
Few things that can force a Havoc Trooper out of hovering: the Behemoth's residual spherical attack, and the Ascendant's highly destructive offensive orb.
Outlaw[]
As long as the Havoc Trooper is hovering, Adhi can't reach up to bite and grab her down.
Remnant[]
The Destroyer's guns are one of the few things that can force a Havoc Trooper out of hovering. All other continuous damage units can be swiftly retaliated on or tanked before shooting back.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Multiplayer and APEX HQ







Common

Human Adept • Human Engineer • Human Infiltrator • Human Sentinel • Human Soldier • Human Vanguard


Uncommon

Asari Adept • Asari Sentinel • Krogan Engineer • Krogan Vanguard • Salarian Infiltrator • Turian Soldier


Rare

Angara Insurgent • Asari Huntress • Batarian Scrapper • Human Artificer • Human Commando • Human Guardian • Human Juggernaut • Krogan Mercenary • Salarian Architect • Turian Agent • Turian Havoc Trooper


Ultra Rare

Angara Avenger • Angara Exemplar • Asari Duelist • Batarian Vanguard • Human Kineticist • Krogan Gladiator • Salarian Operator






