






This article is about Garrus Vakarian's class and class talent in Mass Effect. For his class power in Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3, see Turian Rebel. For the multiplayer class in Mass Effect: Andromeda, see Turian Agent (Mass Effect: Andromeda).

See also: Squad Members Guide#Garrus Vakarian
Turian Agent is a non-playable class, similar to Infiltrator. When compared to the Infiltrator, the class swaps weapon training with pistols for assault rifles and picks up Adrenaline Burst instead of Immunity. The class is therefore more fragile than a standard Infiltrator, but is also able to use his powers more often.
Talents[]
See also: Talents#Class Specific





Class: Turian Agent


 Assault Rifles




 Sniper Rifles

Unlocked at Assault Rifles 6


 Tactical Armor




 Assault Training

Unlocked at Tactical Armor 5


 Decryption




 Damping

Unlocked at Decryption 4


 First Aid




 Electronics

Unlocked at First Aid 7








Class Talent[]
The required military service of his people has given Garrus expert training in assault and sniper rifles.
Increases accuracy with all weapons
Increases damage with assault and sniper rifles


Improves accuracy with all weapons by 4%. Increases damage with assault and sniper rifles by 4%.
Improves accuracy with all weapons by 7%. Increases damage with assault and sniper rifles by 5%.
Improves accuracy with all weapons by 10%. Increases damage with assault and sniper rifles by 6%.
Improves accuracy with all weapons by 13%. Increases damage with assault and sniper rifles by 7%.
Improves accuracy with all weapons by 16%. Increases damage with assault and sniper rifles by 8%.
Improves accuracy with all weapons by 19%. Increases damage with assault and sniper rifles by 9%.
Availability[]
Garrus Vakarian


Mass Effect Talents


Biotic

Barrier • Lift • Singularity • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Assault Rifles • Pistols • Shotguns • Sniper Rifles • Assault Training • Fitness • Basic Armor • Combat Armor • Tactical Armor


Tech

Damping • Decryption • Electronics • First Aid • Hacking • Medicine


Class

Adept • Asari Scientist • Engineer • Infiltrator • Krogan Battlemaster • Quarian Machinist • Sentinel • Soldier • Turian Agent • Vanguard


Player only

Charm • Intimidate • Spectre Training




