


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 





“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




The Turian Camp on Havarl is a makeshift settlement constructed by disgorged colonists from Ark Natanus. It is situated southwest from the Chasm of the Builders, on a clearing protected by tall Remnant walls on three sides. 
The camp's denizens suffer from Roekaar incursions whenever the xenophobes find them. Pathfinder Ryder can save them from one such attack and inquire about the ark. However, they also have no idea where Natanus is. Avitus Rix, ex-Spectre and current Pathfinder second-in-command, reports they just crash-landed on the world. Most of Natanus' colonists are still missing, including their Pathfinder Macen Barro.
The survivors in the camp are still too shocked to grieve or comprehend their situation. Avitus reckons it would get ugly once things calm down. Some have even started thinking they're stuck there forever or until killed by aliens. There are a few who are grateful, though, that Avitus has helped them weather the crisis for the time being.
Cobbled together from what remained of the turians' stasis pod, the camp has enough supplies and materials for basic illumination and defense. Food is in short supply, however. Starving people have taken their chances with Havarl's dangerous flora despite logic and repeated advice against eating anything raw.
The camp is largely abandoned following Natanus' recovery, with only Drusa, the woman in charge of collecting ark debris, remaining to guard it.

Missions[]



Allies and Relationships
Missing Arks
Ryder Family Secrets
Turian Ark: Not Dead Yet


Additional Tasks
Task: Turian Salvage

Datapads[]



Personal Log: Pavefina Perari
Login: Pavefina Perari

New entry: There's something wrong with this planet. Plants sprout up behind you. The trees whisper. And I swear something other than those aliens is watching us. Thank Spirits for the Spectre. If we survive, it's because of Avitus.


END LOG







Personal Log: Torex Arus
Login: Torex Arus

New entry: Another attack by those things. The aliens. Can't go two days without an ambush. And if it's not them, it's the damn plants. Poisoning us or destroying whatever equipment we can scavenge.

I keep wondering about the other arks. Maybe they faired [sic] better and are mounting a rescue. Just hope it's not the humans. Arrogant bastards would never let us forget it.


END LOG





