









Turian Bodyguard




Race
Turian


Type
Organic


Armament
Assault Rifles, Shotguns


Abilities
 Regeneration


Health
Moderate


Shields
Low


Locations
Citadel


Turian Bodyguards are turians that serve to protect Jax when he is engaging in business transactions with potential buyers.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




After speaking with Chellick about Jax and the weapon mods, Shepard heads down to the Markets. When meeting with Jax, Shepard has the option to let Jax go and give him the money; otherwise, Shepard can either threaten to arrest him or simply refuse to pay. In both cases Shepard will take out a gun but can still back down by saying "Just kidding", which makes Jax and the bodyguards leave. Otherwise, there is a firefight with him and the two bodyguards.

Tactics[]
Turian bodyguards have two to three bars of shielding depending on the difficulty. As is the case with all Mass Effect enemies, it will regenerate over time. Their health also regenerates and they will actively use cover around the room.
Bodyguards are equipped with assault rifles and shotguns, and will switch their weapons depending on the range. Unlike geth troops, using Sabotage will merely make them switch to their other weapon and not leave them completely defenceless.
These turians never leave the confines of their room. If the player retreats to the staircase, they won't ever follow, unlike their employer. This makes it possible to lure Jax off and deal with them later.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





