




Turian Sentinel






Class
Sentinel


Race
Turian


Rarity
Uncommon


Availability
Initially unlockable


Abilities
Dual Omni-BladesWeapon ExpertToughnessDecreased Mobility


Turians adhere to a strict moral code: "The needs of the group outweigh that of the individual." Discipline is the foundation of turian society. A turian line never collapses; its troops fall back in order, setting ambushes as they go. You will only see a turian's back when they're dead.
Turians receive the best military training in the galaxy. Their proficiency with a wide range of weapons, as well as their unmatched focus and determination, make up for their lack of speed and agility. They are a redoubtable ally on any battlefield.

Contents

1 Powers
2 Melee and movement
3 Player Notes

3.1 General Notes
3.2 Cerberus
3.3 Collectors
3.4 Geth
3.5 Reapers




Powers[]





Shield: 750 / Health: 500


Class: Turian Veteran


 Warp




 Overload




 Tech Armor




 Fitness











Melee and movement[]





Regular Melee – Punch
Melee Sequence: The Turian Sentinel executes a series of up to three punches.
Heavy Melee (Dual Omni-Blades) – The Turian Sentinel generates two omni-blades and slashes horizontally.
Grab (Omni-Blade Stab) – The Turian Sentinel drags an enemy over cover and then executes them by stabbing with an omni-blade.





Dodge – The Turian Sentinel lacks a dodge maneuver.
The Turian Sentinel can take cover, and can roll from cover to cover.

Player Notes[]
General Notes[]
With Overload to stagger and strip shields and barriers, and Warp to weaken enemy armour and improve weapon damage, the Turian Sentinel is effective against any type of enemy. Combined with Tech Armor to reduce damage by up to 50%, explode to stagger enemies in close-quarters, clutch situations for escape, and increase weapon damage by 37.5% and weapon stability by 55%, the Turian Sentinel is a very balanced class.
Assault rifles, such as the M-7 Lancer, are a better than usual choice thanks to the Turian Veteran ability, which gives encumbrance and stability bonuses.
By landing a Warp on a target that is still arcing from an Overload, you will produce a Tech Burst, dealing extra damage to an area as well as to the target.
The Turian Sentinel is a good choice if you are looking for a tough, well-armoured character who can offer the team heavy and constant fire support.
Tech Armor is best enabled when possible so that it can provide damage reduction and be detonated right away when needed.
Sorting out what you should pick for your powers is quite possibly the most difficult thing you will be doing with the Turian Sentinel. Since all five skills are useful, you may be much more inclined to take all five, rather than maxing out four and leaving one skill untrained. If you want to be versatile, you will either have to sacrifice protection, damage, or endurance, and this can be quite a deterrent to invest in both the casting powers.
The key evolutions of Overload are on rank 5 and 6 while the key evolution of Warp is on rank 5, with rank 6 being also very useful for improving the damage of Incendiary Rounds. With the passive power being one of the strongest in the game, the player may be inclined to max out all these powers. Once that is done, splitting Tech Armor and Fitness into 4 ranks each provides the optimal durability.
If you have to pick one of the casting powers to skimp on, go with Warp, as even at a low rank, it still provides a long-lasting debuff of enemy armor and allows for the use of Warp Rounds for excellent damage against affected health, armor and barriers. The Turian Sentinel is the only turian class that can reliably benefit from Warp Rounds in this way.
Going the middle route of putting 5 ranks into Warp, Tech Armor can be evolved higher for power damage while keeping 4 ranks in Fitness, or evolved fully for power damage and recharge while keeping 3 ranks in Fitness.
Cerberus[]
Overload can easily strip away shields and barriers from Atlases, Phantoms, Centurions, Combat Engineers, Turrets, and Nemeses, while Warp can then weaken the Atlas.
Turians lack agility so remember to use cover or accompany teammates when dealing with the more elusive enemies such as Nemeses or Phantoms.
Tech Armor's detonation carries enough force to stagger a Phantom on any difficulty, which can give you a few precious moments to run away so you can engage her at a more comfortable distance. Used offensively, the detonation can stagger a Nemesis as well, stopping her quick and often erratic movements so you can kill her with gunfire or followup powers from teammates.
Collectors[]
Warp will make heavier enemies very vulnerable to weapon fire.
Overload is not as useful for enemies with a weaker barrier, but will cause much more damage than warp on enemies whose barrier is much harder to crack. If evolved for this purpose, Overload will incapacitate weaker foes briefly, and perhaps give you the few seconds needed to dispatch stronger enemies.
Tech Armor needs to be kept on, as you will undoubtedly be taking a lot of damage from ranged specialists.
Geth[]
Overload is very effective, as it will paralyse all units, except for Geth Primes, when used on them. This allows for escape/follow-up headshots.
Overload with at least one chain evolution selected can be useful for revealing cloaked Geth Hunters, since Overload will jump from one of them to another.
Warp can be employed effectively against unshielded Geth Pyros and Primes, as it weakens their armor, not only doing damage, but increasing damage dealt to them while the biotic effect is active.
Reapers[]
Warp will be helpful against Brutes, Ravagers and Banshees, especially when evolved to do max damage to armour and paired with Incendiary Rounds.
Overload can be employed against Banshee's barriers or Marauder's shields, but for most Reaper opponents you'll need your guns and Warp.
Tanking with Tech Armour and a heavy gun loadout can be viable against Reapers, as it allows the player to fire continuously outside of cover, while reducing damage taken by up to a third.
Tech Armour can also be detonated to reliably kill Husks that have gotten too close, or stagger Marauders or Cannibals which get too close. Do so to prevent their melee attacks, which are incredibly hard to interrupt, deal significant damage on higher difficulties, potentially breaking shields in one hit, and they stagger every time.


Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer and Character Customization


Adepts

Asari • Asari Justicar • Awakened Collector • Batarian Slasher • Drell • Human • Krogan Shaman • N7 Fury • Project Phoenix • Volus


Engineers

Geth • Human • N7 Demolisher • Quarian • Quarian Male • Salarian • Talon Mercenary • Turian Saboteur • Volus • Vorcha Hunter


Infiltrators

Alliance Infiltration Unit • Asari Huntress • Drell Assassin • Geth Hunter • Human • N7 Shadow • Quarian • Quarian Male • Salarian • Turian Ghost


Sentinels

Asari Valkyrie • Batarian Enforcer • Human • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • N7 Paladin • Turian • Volus Mercenary • Vorcha


Soldiers

Batarian Enforcer • Battlefield 3 • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Trooper • Human • Krogan • N7 Destroyer • Quarian Marksman • Turian • Turian Havoc • Vorcha


Vanguards

Asari • Batarian Brawler • Cabal • Drell • Human • Krogan Battlemaster • N7 Slayer • Project Phoenix • Volus Protector




