






This article is about is about the enemy called Turret in Mass Effect. For other uses, see Turret (disambiguation).








Turret




Type
Synthetic


Armament
Rocket Launcher


Abilities
None


Health
Moderate


Shields
Very High


Locations
Binthu


A Turret is a defense installation positioned near a main structure or a key defense point. Turrets are in use by pirate bands, mercenary groups, terrorist groups, and professional military forces around the galaxy. In Mass Effect, Turrets are a particular type of stationary defense installation that can be found guarding bases on planets like Binthu.

Tactics[]
Turrets possess very high health and six bars of shielding, making them very durable. As is the case with all ME enemies, their shields regenerate over time.
Fighting them in Mako is relatively easy, because they're large stationary targets and it only takes a couple of shots from the main gun and several machine gun bursts to destroy them. While their missiles are quite damaging to Mako, they don't travel very fast and thus can be easily dodged. However, you will get less experience if you do that.
If you are going to fight them on foot, then keep on the move because just one shot will usually kill you and they possess considerable AoE. Also because Turrets have a habit of firing so that multiple shots that all impact around the same time, try to approach one turret at the time. The best way to fight them on foot is to whittle them down while you are inside the Mako, then exit and destroy them on foot for the exp bonus.
Turrets can be overheated with Sabotage, preventing them from firing for about ten seconds and allowing you to attack them with impunity.
If you have Master Hacking, it is possible to hack one of the turrets and turn it against the others. You will get the same experience as if it was an "on-foot" kill.
Also note that because these Turrets are stationary targets, kinetic-based biotics are useless against them. Only powers like Warp are effective.


Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





