




Tyr

Region
Milky Way / Exodus Cluster / Asgard





Planet View


Orbital Distance
4.0 AU


Orbital Period
8.05 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
0.988


Radius
6,332 km


Day Length
46.2 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
0.8 atm


Surface Temp
−73 °C 


Surface Gravity
0.95 g


Mass
0.929 Earth Masses


Location: Milky Way / Exodus Cluster / Asgard System /  Third planet


Colony

Species
Human


Capital
Kaldidalur


Colony Founded
2156


Population
47,000 (2183)44,000 (2186)(Pop. estimates are pre-invasion)



Prerequisite: Bring Down the Sky (Mass Effect)

Contents

1 Description

1.1 Mass Effect
1.2 Mass Effect 3


2 Search and Rescue
3 Trivia


Description[]
Mass Effect[]
Tyr is compositionally quite similar to Earth. However, it lies over 4 AU from Asgard, and possesses an atmosphere primarily composed of nitrogen and ethane. While a potential target for terraforming, the presence of the 'shirt sleeves' habitable Terra Nova relegated Tyr to a support role.
Nearly a hundred corporations – human and alien – have constructed extensive teleoperated mining, refining, and manufacturing facilities across the face of Tyr. Combined with the platinum lodes of Terra Nova, the resources they produce are driving development of the local hydrogen fuel cell industries. The Asgard system now supplies nearly 4% of the galactic market.

Mass Effect 3[]
Tyr is compositionally similar to Earth. However, it lies over 4 AU from Asgard and possesses an atmosphere primarily composed of nitrogen and ethane. While a potential target for terraforming, the proximity of the "shirt-sleeves habitable" Terra Nova relegated Tyr to a support role.
Nearly one hundred corporations--human and alien--constructed tele-operated mining, refining, and manufacturing facilities across the planet. The Reapers immediately targeted these, seeking to cut off the Alliance's supply of hydrogen fuel cells.

Search and Rescue[]
Main article: Search and Rescue
Alliance Naval Exploration Flotilla
Trivia[]
Loki's orbit forces Asgard's mass to be 0.992 sols. If the semimajor axis of Tyr is over 4 AU as the description says, then its year must also be more than 8 Earth years.
In Norse mythology, Tyr is a god of war, victory, single combat, and heroic glory.
Tyr's capital city Kaldidalur, is an alternative name of Kaldidalsvegur, the shortest of the highland tracks traversing the Highlands of Iceland.



