









Umi Henon
Bartender

Race
Asari


Gender
Feminine


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Umi Henon is a bartender at Kralla's Song in Kadara Port. Like many people in her profession, she keeps tabs on local happenings and can be approached for information, provided one can pay and can tolerate her gruff no-nonsense demeanor.






“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
Having bartended on Thessia for 200 years, Umi came to Andromeda looking for a change. While she didn't enjoy her profession back in the Milky Way, she found the alternatives disagreeable and settled for continuing to tend bars even in a brand new galaxy. 
Her signature drink is whiskey served neat.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Umi is first seen demanding that an Outcast pirate pay for his order. The krogan rebuffs her at first, then she pulls out a knife and stabs it on the table in front of the pirate. The krogan promptly settles his tab. She serves Reyes Vidal two drinks afterward, though she hassles Pathfinder Ryder for the payment when the smuggler walks out.
Umi is informed about the tensions between the Outcasts and the Collective, but claims not to worry as long as the violence stays outside of her bar. While she expresses disapproval of Sloane Kelly's steadily increasing protection fees, she acknowledges that the Outcasts make up the majority of her clientele. She appears largely indifferent about the Charlatan-led Collective and their efforts to overthrow the Outcasts, remarking that "no one's got the moral high ground in Kadara".


The bartender takes it as a challenge that Nakmor Drack has no reaction to her strongest drink. She can be overheard promising to mix up something that Drack would like, since she views the plain ryncol he requests as "boring". She concocts a 190-proof drink with ether, though Drack claims it isn't much stronger than the last. Umi gets frustrated and mixes some tranquilizers in the next drink, which induces some reaction in the krogan. Finally, Umi puts "everything" into a concoction called "combat juice", which manages to hit Drack hard.
During the search for Reyes' stolen cargo, Umi is approached by Reyes and Ryder, who may engage in flirty banter in her presence. She groans and asks if they want a drink or a room: Reyes clarifies they need information. Umi reveals the person they're looking for, Zia Cordier, is an ex-girlfriend of Reyes, and that Zia and an associate had plans to meet someone at Spirits' Ledge.


During Sloane's get-together for the locals, Umi renders her services at Outcast Headquarters. Ryder can ask her for drinks, though she challenges them to answer some questions correctly first as she's bored. She can serve up to three drinks, with the third being a mix of angaran wine and ryncol that she wishes to test if it's fit for human consumption. If Ryder takes it up, she deems it a success since the Pathfinder's still standing, though later Ryder goes wild around the throne room before briefly passing out.
Umi works with a human supply runner named Coleman Barnett, who acts smitten around her presence but clumsily conceals it under pretense of a working relationship. Umi is aware of the man's affections, though she keeps their interactions strictly professional. If the Collective won the power struggle for Kadara Port, Barnett ostensibly asks for her well-being, and Umi's amused to find his concern adorable before steering things back to business. If the Outcasts retain control, Barnett asks if she knew the Charlatan, and she does not have fond memories of him as he never paid his tab.




