






This article is about the squad revival talent in Mass Effect and the healing/revival power in Mass Effect 2. For the healing talent in Mass Effect and the healing/revival power in Mass Effect 3, see First Aid.

Contents

1 Mass Effect

1.1 Unity

1.1.1 Unity
1.1.2 Advanced Unity
1.1.3 Master Unity




2 Mass Effect 2


Mass Effect[]
Unity[]
See also: Spectre Training
Unity is one of the most important talents in the game. It is only available to Shepard after unlocking Spectre Training and investing at least 4 points in it, and, unless you've specialised as a Medic, Unity is the only way to revive fallen squadmates during combat without leaving the fight (with the possible exception of boarding the Mako). During long battles, if Unity isn't maxed out you may need to quickly follow it up with Shield Boost, Barrier, Immunity, or First Aid to keep your squadmates from being killed again. Even Master Unity has a long 90 second recharge time, but fortunately Adrenaline Burst can be used to immediately reset this (and all other ability recharge times) if needed in an emergency, meaning that it may not be worth the points to invest in the higher ranks of Unity just to reduce the recharge time.   
Unity[]
Restores dead squad members with 15% health and 40% shields.

Recharge time: 150 sec.
Accuracy cost: 45%
Advanced Unity[]
Restores dead squad members with 20% health and 60% shields.

Recharge time: 120 sec.
Accuracy cost: 45%
Master Unity[]
Restores dead squad members with 30% health and 100% shields.

Recharge time: 90 sec.
Accuracy cost: 45%
Mass Effect 2[]
See also: Medi-gel#Mass Effect 2, Research#Medical Upgrades

Revives any wounded, fallen squad member.

Recharge Time: 3.00 seconds
Unity is a power in Mass Effect 2 that utilizes medi-gel from Shepard's limited reserve to revive and heal fallen or injured squadmates and also heal Shepard. Shepard starts with the capacity to carry three units of medi-gel, which can be increased up to nine with maximum upgrades. By default, Unity will revive any fallen squadmates to full health and shields, but it will have no effect on Shepard. Researching the Emergency Shielding and Trauma Module upgrades gives Unity the additional ability to restore both Shepard and damaged but conscious squadmates to full shields and health, respectively.
Unity shares the same cooldown timer as all other powers. Attempting to cast Unity when no party member (including Shepard) is damaged, or they are not damaged in a way that medi-gel is currently upgraded to heal will result in the power simply not casting. If the ability icon is highlighted or moused over in the HUD, a red tooltip will explain why Unity is not currently applicable. 
Medi-gel can be administered while Shepard is under fire, and (depending on upgrades) it is capable of restoring Shepard and squadmate health and shields even while damage is being taken during the restore effect, making Unity a valuable "panic" button. This can be done on the move as well, though like most other powers, it is unusable while storming. It should be noted that Unity has a delayed activation and only starts restoring health after a short animation. If Shepard is hit during the casting delay/animation period by certain enemy attacks or powers that cause staggers or stuns, the medi-gel will be interrupted before it goes into effect. Once the healing effect successfully begins it can't be interrupted.   
At least one medi-gel is always expended if Shepard or a squadmate is damaged when casting Unity, assuming medi-gel can repair the type of damage incurred. No more than two medi-gel can be used per cast of Unity, and the only condition where two medi-gel is expended is if there are two squadmates and both are down. The exception to this is when Shepard has only one medi-gel left, in which case casting Unity will restore Shepard (if applicable) and revive and/or fully restore both squadmates even if both were downed and/or damaged. Squadmates that are revived will not remember any previous orders to hold a specific position and will choose their own cover or movements unless given new orders.



Mass Effect 2 Powers


Ammo

Armor-Piercing Ammo • Cryo Ammo • Disruptor Ammo • Incendiary Ammo • Shredder Ammo • Warp Ammo


Biotic

Barrier • Charge • Dominate • Pull • Reave • Shockwave • Singularity • Slam • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Adrenaline Rush • Concussive Shot • Flashbang Grenade • Fortification • Inferno Grenade • Shadow Strike


Tech

AI Hacking • Combat Drone • Cryo Blast • Energy Drain • Geth Shield Boost • Incinerate • Neural Shock • Overload • Tactical Cloak • Tech Armor


Player only

Assault Mastery • Biotic Mastery • Combat Mastery • Defender • Operative • Tech Mastery • Unity


Squadmate Class

Ardat Yakshi • Asari Justicar • Asari Scientist • Cerberus Officer • Cerberus Operative • Turian Rebel • Drell Assassin • Geth Infiltrator • Krogan Berserker • Master Thief • Mercenary Veteran • Quarian Machinist • Salarian Scientist • Subject Zero




