







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.






H-047c

Region
Andromeda / Heleus Cluster / Remav / Unnamed Gas Giant (Remav)





Moon View


Orbital Distance
116.7 km


Orbital Period
719.1 Earth Days


Radius
668 km


Atm. Pressure
0.02 atm


Surface Temp
−155 °C


Location: Andromeda / Heleus Cluster / Remav System / Unnamed Gas Giant (Remav)


Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Points of Interest
4 Missions
5 Mineral Deposits
6 Environmental Information
7 Trivia


Description[]
Shattered by the Scourge, this formerly viable planet [sic] is now a debris field. Due to a lack of atmosphere, few lifeforms are present. 
ALERT: Excessive solar and cosmic radiation detected. Confinement to the Nomad advised. 

Codex Entry[]
This small planet was of particular interest to the turian contingent of the Andromeda Initiative. Long-distance studies suggested H-047c was a "golden world," eminently suitable for dextro-protein species like turians, earning it the designation Habitat 5. The turian ark Natanus set course for H-047c to ensure they would have a viable settlement site on arrival. 
In the intervening centuries, astronomical studies show H-047c was pulverized by debris from the erupting Scourge. The dark energy of the phenomenon increased the mass of this debris to the point that the impact shattered the planet, leaving it uninhabitable. 
With its magnetic field drastically weakened and much of its atmosphere lost, what remains intact of H-047c's surface is vulnerable to cosmic radiation. This has rendered the soil unable to support life, though it is a potential source of valuable helium-3.  


Points of Interest[]


Name

Description

Associated Missions


Acheron Spine

A region of craters south of the Tempest's landing zone.




Cocytus Plateau

Sloping terrain next to the Tempest's landing zone. At the base of the plateau is a dome with a mining camp.

From the DustTask: Hitting Rocks for Science


Crater: Agneta

Location of the main mining base in the northern region. Two connected domes.

From the Dust


Crater: Idriya

Contains an abandoned mining camp dome in the southwestern region.

Vetra Nyx: Means and Ends


Crater: Peregrine

Contains a dome with a mining camp in the southern region.

From the Dust


Crater: Santiago

Location of a Remnant conservatory in the western region.

The Remnant Tiller


Crater: Vespasien

Contains a dome with a mining camp in the southeastern region.

From the DustTask: Hitting Rocks for Science


Lethe Rift

A gigantic chasm bisecting the three major landmasses in the region.




Missions[]



Priority Ops
H-047c: A New World


Allies and Relationships
Vetra Nyx: Means and Ends




Heleus Assignments
From the Dust
The Remnant Tiller


Additional Tasks
Task: Hitting Rocks for Science

Mineral Deposits[]
Titanium
Silicon
Platinum
Magnesium
Environmental Information[]
Main article: Hazard
H-047c has no atmosphere which allows excessive solar and cosmic radiation to cover the remains of the planet. All areas outside of specially shielded zones pose an environmental hazard to personnel and vehicles.

SAFE CONDITION - RADIATION 0.002 mSv/hr
Hazard Level 1 - RADIATION 0.043 mSv/hr
Due to the excessive levels of radiation, Pathfinder Ryder is unable to venture out onto the planet surface unless confined to the Nomad. SAM warns terminal cancer is likely if walking outside the vehicle is attempted.

Trivia[]
H-047c is actually a satellite of a gas giant in the same orbital space, same as Havarl, although both are labeled and often referred to, in-universe, as "planets".



