







This article is a disambiguation page.
The following is a list of links to pages that might share the same title.
Please follow one of the disambiguation links below or search to find the page you were looking for if it is not listed. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.


Games in the Mass Effect trilogy allow players to improve their equipment through upgrades. Upgrade systems vary from game to game. Related articles are listed below.

Contents

1 Mass Effect
2 Mass Effect 2
3 Mass Effect 3
4 See Also


Mass Effect[]
In Mass Effect upgrades are available as inventory items that can be placed in the upgrade slots of various items. Upgrades vary in their effects and the items that they can be attached to.
Ammo Upgrades - A list of available ammunition upgrades for Weapons in Mass Effect, including descriptions and effects.
Armor Upgrades - A list of available Armor upgrades in Mass Effect, including descriptions and effects.
Grenade Upgrades - A list of available upgrades for Grenades in Mass Effect, including descriptions and effects.
Grenade and Medi-gel Upgrades - A list of inventory capacity upgrades for Medi-gel and Grenades, as well as their location.
Weapon Upgrades - A list of available Weapon upgrades in Mass Effect, including descriptions and effects.
Mass Effect 2[]
In Mass Effect 2 upgrades are single-use items that are immediately applied when they are researched in the Normandy's laboratory or purchased from vendors.
Research - A list of the available upgrades for Armor, Weapons, Powers, Squadmates, and the Normandy SR-2 in Mass Effect 2.
Upgrade Guide - A guide for finding all the available upgrades.
Mass Effect 3[]
In Mass Effect 3 upgrades are again available as inventory items that can be placed in the upgrade slots of various items. Upgrades vary in their effects and the items that they can be attached to.

Weapon Mods - A list of available Weapon upgrades in Mass Effect 3, including descriptions and effects.
Gear - A list of available Gear upgrades in Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer which bestow persistent bonuses.
Equipment - A list of available equipment upgrades in Mass Effect 3 Multiplayer which bestow bonuses for a single mission.
Equipment Guide (Mass Effect 3) - A list of important collectibles such as weapons, weapon mods, armor, intel, and Citadel mission items that can be acquired throughout Mass Effect 3.
See Also[]
Equipment



