






This article is about the class in Mass Effect, Mass Effect 2, Mass Effect 3, and Mass Effect: Andromeda. For other uses, see Vanguard (disambiguation).

Contents

1 Mass Effect

1.1 Talents
1.2 Class Talent


2 Mass Effect 2

2.1 Weapons Training
2.2 Powers


3 Mass Effect 3

3.1 Powers
3.2 Weight Capacity


4 Mass Effect: Andromeda
5 See also


Mass Effect[]
The Vanguard is a powerful combatant, able to combine the offensive powers of the Adept and the Soldier. They have access to various weapons and armor, as well as biotics. Gameplay focus is on taking down enemies with quick and brutal force.
Vanguards are the front line of the squad. They focus on combat potential, using biotics to disable and soften up their enemies while shielding themselves from return damage long enough to dispatch foes in a hail of gunfire. The Vanguard wears light armor to start with, though they can upgrade to medium armor, and they may gain specialist training in shotguns and pistols. They can also equip advanced bio-amps to increase the strength of their biotics. All Krogan Battlemasters including Wrex belong to this class.
The Vanguard class talent increases damage with shotguns and pistols, and increases biotic protection.

Talents[]
See also: Talents#Class Specific





Class: Vanguard


 Pistols




 Shotguns

Unlocked at Pistols 6


 Assault Training




 Tactical Armor

Unlocked at Assault Training 5


 Throw




 Lift

Unlocked at Throw 7


 Warp




 Barrier

Unlocked at Warp 4








Class Talent[]
The Vanguard class talent increases ability with pistols and shotguns, and protection from biotics. A Vanguard can specialize into the combat-oriented Shock Trooper or the biotics-oriented Nemesis, giving them access to levels 7 - 12.
Each point spent in the Vanguard talent gives abilities as listed below:

Increases biotic protection by 6% Increases pistol and shotgun damage by 5%
Increases biotic protection by 9% Increases pistol and shotgun damage by 6%
Increases biotic protection by 12% Increases pistol and shotgun damage by 7%
Increases biotic protection by 15% Increases pistol and shotgun damage by 8%
Increases biotic protection by 18% Increases pistol and shotgun damage by 9%
Increases biotic protection by 21% Increases pistol and shotgun damage by 10%
Mass Effect 2[]
Vanguards are feared for their high-risk high-reward combat style, closing quickly on enemies and destroying them at close range with weapons and biotic abilities. They are outfitted with L5n implants, enabling them to perform a biotic charge that strikes the opponent with incredible force while bringing the Vanguard in for close-range combat.
Weapons Training[]
Heavy Pistols
Shotguns
Submachine Guns
Heavy Weapons
Powers[]





Class: Vanguard


 Incendiary Ammo




 Cryo Ammo

Unlocked at Incendiary Ammo 2


 Charge




 Shockwave

Unlocked at Charge 2


 Pull

Unlocked at Shockwave 2


 Assault Mastery










Mass Effect 3[]
Vanguards are feared for their high-risk, high-reward combat style, closing quickly on enemies and destroying them at short range with weapons and biotic abilities. They are outfitted with L5n implants, enabling them to perform a biotic charge that strikes the opponent with incredible force while bringing the Vanguard in for close-range combat.

Powers[]





Class: Vanguard


 Incendiary Ammo




 Cryo Ammo

Unlocked at Level 3


 Pull

Unlocked at Level 6


 Biotic Charge




 Shockwave

Unlocked at Level 3


 Nova

Unlocked at Level 6


 Assault Mastery




 Fitness

Unlocked at Level 3








Weight Capacity[]
See also: Weight Capacity
The Vanguard has a weight capacity bonus of 15 at Level 1 of Assault Mastery, increasing to 35 at Level 2. A maximum capacity bonus of 70 is achievable by choosing the 'Weight Capacity' upgrade at Level 5 of Assault Mastery. This puts the Vanguard in league with the Infiltrator and Sentinel, lower than the Soldier but higher than the Adept and Engineer.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]

Main article: Profiles
Mass Effect: Andromeda no longer uses the class system of a locked in character "class" chosen at the beginning of gameplay but uses flexible Profiles instead. 
Pathfinder Ryder has the ability to change profiles at anytime (including during combat). This allows a vastly larger amount of customization than seen in prior Mass Effect games.
The Vanguard profile is one of seven profiles available to Ryder.
Vanguards have an aggressive combat style, preferring to close in on enemies and deal heavy damage at short range.
This profile reconfigures Ryder's implant and physiology in subtle ways, allowing him/her to absorb energy from enemies on impact and shunt that energy into reinforcing his/her shields.
Bonus power - SIPHONING STRIKES: Melee attacks restore shields.
Bonus power - BIOTIC JUMP & EVADES: Instead of jump jet, use biotics to jump and evade.

See also[]
Nemesis
Shock Trooper
Vanguard Guide
Vanguard Guide (Mass Effect 2)
Vanguard Guide (Mass Effect 3)




Classes




Soldier • Engineer • Adept • Infiltrator • Vanguard • Sentinel



Mass Effect Talents


Biotic

Barrier • Lift • Singularity • Stasis • Throw • Warp


Combat

Assault Rifles • Pistols • Shotguns • Sniper Rifles • Assault Training • Fitness • Basic Armor • Combat Armor • Tactical Armor


Tech

Damping • Decryption • Electronics • First Aid • Hacking • Medicine


Class

Adept • Asari Scientist • Engineer • Infiltrator • Krogan Battlemaster • Quarian Machinist • Sentinel • Soldier • Turian Agent • Vanguard


Player only

Charm • Intimidate • Spectre Training




