









Vehn Terev
Commander

Race
Angara


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Vehn Terev is a commander for the Resistance. He's regarded by Evfra de Tershaav as a stubborn individual, always questioning orders, which the Resistance leader believed to be a strength.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
According to available records Vehn claimed he was born on Voeld. During his career in the Resistance he was assigned to Moshae Sjefa as her bodyguard. However, he believed the angara were losing the war against the kett, and Evfra was wasting Resistance personnel looking after what Vehn called a "useless old woman".
Having heard the Archon only wanted the Moshae and thinking that handing her over would stop the war, Vehn collaborated with the enemy by means of a kett transponder, which led to the Moshae's capture. He then fled to Kadara, resulting in Evfra's contacts actively hunting for him. 
Vehn was eventually arrested under the authority of Kadara Port's leader Sloane Kelly, who became aware of his betrayal, and threw him into jail. He resisted giving the Outcasts any intel on the kett, and since he wasn't going to be useful otherwise Sloane sentenced him to execution as a means of placating the angara under her domain.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]
Despite Evfra's efforts suppressing the fact that a member of the Resistance betrayed the angara's most revered figure, the Moshae herself eventually learns about it after her rescue and so do the people in Kadara. When informing Pathfinder Ryder about him, Evfra tells Ryder that he wants Vehn alive to answer for his betrayal.
In order to retrieve an artifact in the Archon's possession, Ryder confronts Vehn in his cell in Outcast Headquarters, thinking he knows where the Archon's ship is. Unfortunately for Ryder Vehn never saw his collaborators face to face, although he claims he buried the transponder he used to sell out the Moshae outside the city prior to his arrest; its frequency can be used to track down the ship. 
Along with everybody else, when he betrayed the Moshae he didn't know he'd be subjecting her to exaltation, and he seems to have some remorse over it: he only did what he thought was right. At the conclusion of the conversation, Vehn is resigned to face the consequences of his actions.
If Ryder was allowed by Sloane to meet with Vehn, the traitor is later executed as per her orders.
If Ryder was forced to meet Vehn via maintenance shaft from Kadara Market due to antagonizing Sloane, the Pathfinder hands Vehn a tool to break himself out of prison and into waiting Resistance personnel. The traitor initially balks at trading one cell for another, although he surmises he'd rather be miserable than kaerkyn food.
Subsequently, Vehn can be found on Aya tending to the plants of the Memorial Gardens. Evfra wanted to throw Vehn down a hole after his return from Kadara and interrogation. However, the Moshae convinced Evfra to let Vehn live and make him work as a "volunteer" for servitude on the planet. Rather than being grateful, Vehn views it with resentment as the Moshae keeps her high moral ground while he's the traitor who gets a second chance. He snarks at not being paid to stand around, only to remark he isn't actually paid at all.




