


Reyes Vidal has sent an email asking you to contact him via comms.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Read your mail
2.2 Call Reyes
2.3 Meet Reyes at Outcast headquarters
2.4 Mingle with party guests
2.5 Find Reyes


3 Rewards


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Settling Kadara

Starts automatically upon completion of the objective Return to the Tempest in the aforementioned prerequisite.

Walkthrough[]
This is a character-building mission. There's no combat here, and the only things you'll have to worry about are the choices you'll make in furthering or neutering certain relationships.

Read your mail[]
Read the email from Reyes. One of two versions of the email will arrive. Reyes wants you to call him.




Call me
From: Reyes Vidal

Ryder,

Something interesting just fell into my lap. Call me when you have a minute.

Reyes







Call me
From: Reyes Vidal 

Ryder,

Thanks again for your help with Zia. And Roekaar. I owe you something special. And I think I found just the thing. Give me a call when you have a minute.

Reyes




Call Reyes[]

Use the vidcom on the Tempest. Vidal invites Pathfinder Ryder to accompany him to a get-together that Sloane Kelly is holding for the locals. 
Note: If you decline the invitation, this mission is considered finished and is skipped altogether, and High Noon begins the next time you're on Kadara.

Meet Reyes at Outcast headquarters[]
Go to the Outcast Headquarters. Note that you can't fast travel from The Docks to the mission location, so you'll have to walk and endure a couple of door loading times. Once you gain access to the HQ's main door a cutscene starts.

A guard with a scarred eye gatekeeps Ryder on the basis that they're not on the guest list. Whichever way you interact with him, Reyes arrives on time to declare you his plus-one.
You both proceed to the throne room, which is a bit more festive and populated than usual. Reyes introduces Ryder to his angaran friend Keema Dohrgun and goes away to take care of something. Mingle with the other guests, and then go and find Reyes.
You can actually roam outside the throne room and explore the open parts of the building, though the door to the outside is locked for the duration of the mission.

Mingle with party guests[]

Ryder needs to talk to three party guests. This is easy to do because there are only six people at the party to talk to: Kaetus, Keema Dohrgun, Sloane Kelly, Umi Henon, Velus, and a human gambler.
Only Kaetus, Keema, and Kelly count towards the 3 required guests. You can speak with the other guests for interesting information but this isn't required.

Bad With Women

On the west wall, a turian named Velus is wallowing in self-pity after chasing off his date Nola. If asked about it, he tells Ryder that he was trying to make her jealous by comparing his date to her sister. Naturally, she became angry and went to drink by herself. 
If you tell him to talk to her, he walks over to her table to explain his mistake. Nola tells him that angara speak honestly to people they like, they don't try to upset them. He replies that he honestly likes her and she says she likes him, too, and tells him to relax. 
If you put down his chances, he won't budge from the place you found him.


Gambling

On the east wall is a gambler trying to decide on evens or odds. He can't decide and asks Ryder to pick. 
Choosing even wins the game for him, choosing odds loses.

Getting Drunk
Inside the Outcast Headquarters, Umi Henon will be serving guests. She will only serve you if you can can answer a question for each drink. 
First, she asks the name of her bar, which is Kralla's Song. Second, she will ask how she serves whiskey. If you ever asked for a drink at her bar, Ryder asks for it 'neat,' to which Umi replies is the only way she serves it. The third question is simply whether you're willing to try an experimental drink. Ryder must accept it to get the final drink. 
After drinking it, Ryder can be seen dancing on the tables and sitting on Sloane's throne before passing out. Once you wake up, the party is still going.

Find Reyes[]
You will have to go back out of the party to find Reyes. Reyes is rummaging through Sloane's storeroom when Ryder finds him, and you can call him out in two different tones. However, a guard approaches the storeroom, prompting Reyes suggest they need a distraction, and fast.
A narrative action prompt is available at this juncture, the content of which depends on whether you're pursuing a romance with Reyes.

If you have flirted enough with Reyes, you'll kiss him.
If you haven't flirted enough with Reyes, the prompt allows you to punch him.
If you opt to do nothing, both of you hide until the guard goes away.

Once the guard's gone Reyes finds what he's looking for: he is using the party to steal a bottle of 645-year-old Mount Milgrom whiskey from Sloane. You're either in the mood for drinks or scolding Reyes, though whatever the case you both ditch the party.
Reyes and Ryder both enjoy the drink while watching the Kadara sunset. Reyes inquires how you're finding Andromeda so far, and you can answer how you will. He tells you his reasons for coming to another galaxy, which leads to a dialogue/relationship crossroads. 
If you kissed him earlier and you tell him he matters to you, then you start making out again. The other choices just affirm what kind of relationship you want with Reyes: as a friend or just a colleague. The scene and the mission ends panning away from Ryder and Reyes, and you are deposited right outside Outcast Headquarters afterwards.

Rewards[]
+270 XP



