









Captain Ventralis




Race
Human


Type
Organic


Armament
Assault Rifle, Shotgun


Abilities
 Immunity Shield Boost


Health
Moderate


Shields
Low


Locations
Noveria


Captain J. Ventralis is the human head of the ERCS personnel assigned to the labs at Noveria for security. Commander Shepard meets him after taking the passenger tram to Rift Station.







“This mission just got a lot more complicated.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect follow.




Ventralis is manning the Rift Station perimeter against the rachni continually coming along the tram tunnels. As he explains, he and his men have been on guard for several days, and are exhausted, taking stims to stay awake. A group of attacking rachni interrupt him as he is speaking—Shepard is puzzled as to why they keep attacking the position, as it is a natural kill zone, but Ventralis cannot explain it. He talks briefly about the facility and the situation, but he does not know much about the labs themselves. He warns Shepard not to poke around in corners, referring to the sealed maintenance area.
When asked about Matriarch Benezia, Ventralis says the matriarch is in the hot labs, and gives a pass to Shepard so the Commander can access them. He can also give Shepard permission to go into the quarantined lab to develop a biotoxin cure for the sick scientists, with a warning that Shepard's squad must be scanned before they are allowed to leave. Shepard can return and tell Ventralis about the attack by Alestia Iallis in the quarantined lab. Ventralis is shocked that "just another egghead" turned out to be an asari commando.
If Shepard goes straight to the hot labs looking for Benezia, only to be mobbed by rachni soldiers, the team will return to find Ventralis' post deserted. Ventralis is waiting for Shepard in the barracks. He apologises, saying he is under Benezia's orders, and that he sent Shepard and the squad to the hot labs in the hope that the rachni would kill them. He then opens fire and is killed.
If Shepard breaks into the Restricted Area, the drones and the guards become hostile and attack the squad. Shepard can go back to Ventralis's post and kill him.

Trivia[]
Captain Ventralis is voiced by Chris Edgerly.
Unlike other members of Elanus Risk Control Services, who wear the ERCS light-weight model of Guardian Armor, Ventralis wears the medium-weight model of Explorer Armor, produced by Devlon Industries.
One of his responses, "...My men know the rule: Two legs good, four legs bad," is a reference to George Orwell's Animal Farm.
When the crew is attacked by rachni upon meeting Ventralis, it is possible to abandon the situation. When you come back, Ventralis will give different dialogue, expressing distaste.





The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

Cut Content[]
Ventralis' first name is repeatedly shown in internal data to be "Juleth".[1] Writer Chris L'Etoile stated on the BioWare Forums that Ventralis was originally a female turian.[2]
Ventralis participates in several cut dialogues, including one where he comments on Shepard's backstory.[3]
References[]

↑ Mass Effect Legendary Edition/Game/ME1/BioGame/CookedPCConsole/BIOA_ICE60_02_DSG_LOC_INT.pcc/ice60_julethventralis; Plot Database: LE1.CH2_Noveria.ICE_60_Conversation_Flags.Juleth_Ventralis

↑ BioWare Forums: "Bit of trivia, Captain Ventralis on Noveria was - in VERY early drafts - a female turian named Juleth Ventralis"

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Noveria Voicelines#ice60_julethventralis, Mass Effect Cut Content/Noveria Voicelines#ice60_trig07_guard_rant




Mass Effect Enemies


Geth

Husk • Geth Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Sniper • Geth Shock Trooper • Geth Armature • Geth Colossus • Geth Rocket Drone • Geth Assault Drone • Geth Repair Drone • Geth Ghost • Geth Sapper • Geth Stalker • Geth Turret • Geth Prime • Geth Juggernaut • Geth Rocket Trooper


Krogan

Krogan Bouncer • Krogan • Krogan Warlord • Krogan Commander • Krogan Warrior • Krogan Battlemaster • Blackmailer


Batarian

Batarian War Beast • Batarian Shock Trooper • Batarian Rocket Soldier • Batarian Engineer • Batarian Sniper • Bodyguard • Batarian Trooper


Cerberus

Cerberus Commando • Cerberus Sniper • Cerberus Anti-Tank • Research Technician


Drones/Turrets

Advanced Assault Drone • Advanced Rocket Drone • Defense Drone • Alliance Heavy Turret • Turret • Defensive Turret • Heavy Turret


Mercenaries

Crime Boss • Mercenary Anti-Tank • Mercenary Sniper • Mercenary • Mercenary Adept • Pirate • Pirate Sniper • Thug • Assassin • ERCS Guard • Biotic Terrorist • Biotic Cultist • Biotic Terrorist Leader


Other

Rachni Soldier • Rachni Worker • Rachni Brood Warrior • Thorian Creeper • Test Subject • Asari Clone • Indoctrinated  • Darius Retainer • Scientist (Asari) • Bartender • Warehouse Worker • Thresher Maw • Varren • Varren Alpha • Colonist • Salarian Bodyguard • Turian Bodyguard • Scavenger • Asari Commando


Named Enemies

Tonn Actus • Saren • Menos Avot • Balak • Matriarch Benezia • Calantha Blake • Helena Blake • Hollis Blake • Charn • Chorban • Dahlia Dantius • Lord Darius • Macha Doyle • Doctor Droyas • Fist • Elanos Haliat • Alestia Iallis • Inamorda • Jax • Julia • Ledra • Hana Murakami • Arcelia Silva Martinez • Ian Newstead • May O'Connell •  Davin Reynolds • Greta Reynolds • Doctor Saleon • Kaira Stirling • Captain Ventralis





