


This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 
On occasion when Vetra Nyx is in the squad, she will engage in conversations unique to her.

Unique Dialogue[]
Throughout Ryder's travels, there are specific points where Vetra will voice her opinions. 

On A Better Beginning:
During the first encounter with Nakmor Drack, Vetra recognizes the former, vouches for the Pathfinder, and attempts to persuade the krogan into joining the team.
After helping Drack with a bunch of kett after the activation of the Eos vault, Vetra again persuades the krogan to join the squad.
Vetra wants a scientific outpost if her opinion is asked, reasoning that they were there to explore.
On Helping Havarl's Scientists, if Avitus Rix was not yet talked to after saving the Turian Camp from Roekaar, Assistant Torvar mentions seeing "grey, spiky aliens" to Kiiran Dals after his rescue. He recognizes Vetra as one of the aliens, prompting her to blurt out "Turians?" in asking confirmation.
On Kadara, a datapad audio log on an observation tower south of the Remnant entrance vault on Haarfel has an Outcast guard talking about catching Collective agents in the act of ambushing patrols, only to be shot in the back shortly. Vetra remarks he did catch them in the act.
Spontaneous[]
Sometimes Vetra will say something spontaneously, without being prompted. 

On A Better Beginning:
After hearing an audio log on the southwestern monolith, Ryder observes the doomed researchers were saving any data they could for the next try. Vetra notes that "next try" refers to the squad.
Inside the Remnant vault:
Vetra can't see the top of the gravity well due to how far it took the team down.
After scanning a Remnant object, Vetra warns the Pathfinder to beware of traps. Ryder doesn't detect any, so Vetra shares she made that mistake before.
On Eos:
While wandering around Site 1: Promise, Vetra reveals the Nexus knew the colony would die, but they couldn't do anything but watch it happen.
While wandering around Site 2: Resilience, approaching the corpse of Gordanus Trenitus causes Vetra to remark that he fought 'till the end, a very turian trait.
While wandering around Prodromos, Vetra muses diverting militia equipment to the outpost if it is military-oriented. If it's a scientific outpost, she reports getting requests from the labs.
When the final survey beacon has been planted on Task: What He Would Have Wanted, Vetra curtly curses after realizing the significance of the beacons.
On Havarl:
Shortly after landing for the first time, Vetra thinks the world is even more beautiful than Aya.
On seeing the Chasm of the Builders for the first time, Vetra deadpans getting angry if "those floaty Remnant bots" try to push them off the edge.
While roaming around the Central Wilds after hearing about Havarl's decline from Kiiran Dals, Vetra confesses she doesn't understand as the world looks fine to her.
While wandering around the Remnant Abyss after hearing about angaran reincarnation from First Sage Esmus, Vetra wants to look for a rational explanation about it.
On Voeld:
After landing on the world for the first time, Vetra approves of the Angaran Resistance Base's location as the snow and ice camouflages everything. If Jaal isn't in the squad he warns them they're being watched, causing Vetra to groan that the angara mean business.
On the first heater encountered on the way to the Resistance base Vetra declares she needs a minute to defrost.
While wandering around the Resistance base, Vetra confirms a lot of angara are staring at the squad.
Seeing the Resistance's command center for the first time, Vetra wonders what all the blinky lights are.
On Kadara:
While wandering the populated alley of Kadara Slums Vetra sighs and suggests its denizens should've stayed on the Nexus.
After exiting the slums into Haarfel Vetra wonders how many drunk idiots have fallen in the nearby acidic pools.
Upon entering Tartarus she remarks that she likes it even if it doesn't have Kralla's Song's view of the surroundings.
Vetra is consistently impressed with the huge cave system in Draullir, deeming it a good place to lay low.
On seeing the Collective's huge crate stash on their base in Draullir, Vetra jokes she's running with the wrong crew. Ryder takes offense, but Vetra reckons the Collective has a serious amount of merchandise on their hands.
Nomad Banter[]
While driving across a landscape in the Nomad, Vetra may initiate conversations around certain topics. 

While talking with Cora:
When Cora teases her knowledge of Vetra's dossier, the smuggler comments on the fanciness of the word before asking what the biotic learned. Cora isn't forthcoming, so Vetra warns her not to start what she couldn't finish. She then listens as Cora justifies her view on their working relationship.
Vetra tells Cora about the perks of freelancing. She's good at it and it allows her to test her skills, but she only took it up because she had to, and she doesn't necessarily see it as good for her and Sid in the long run. She wanted to have more options, citing it as a reason she left the Milky Way.
Vetra asks about Cora's parents. Hearing the human's story, she agrees it's rough.
Vetra commiserates about not having closure, and relays her own experience with parental abandonment. She doesn't dwell on the bad hand she was dealt, only with playing the game with the cards she's given.
When Cora asks about how she learned her skills, Vetra discloses she had to figure things out by herself and made a lot of mistakes in the process. She just swore to recover from her mistakes and learn not to do them again. As not everything works for everyone, Vetra recommends personal self-discovery as she knows what hers is.
Cora inquires about a fancy dodging move Vetra did. The turian claims she learned it from a pirate in the Skyllian Verge, in a bar brawl, and she only knew the guy for about a minute and a half.
When Cora expresses admiration for Vetra's accomplishments for herself and Sid, Vetra discloses most people thought she was crazy for dragging her sister into Andromeda. She reiterates she didn't have a choice in their upbringing, but all things considered their life turned out pretty good. She praises Cora herself as she thinks the human is giving herself too little credit.
While talking with Jaal:
Vetra wants to know if he lived his whole life under the kett.
When he inquires about her reasons for going to Heleus, Vetra tells him she simply bought the pitch like everyone else. She wants to believe it was worth it.
She tells Jaal Sid is her only sister that she knows of. When Jaal compares angaran families to many stones acting like a wall and one can't have a wall with just two stones, Vetra replies he can bash someone's head between two stones.
When Jaal observes her concern for Sid dying in Heleus, Vetra tells him off as it's an inappropriate topic. She wonders if just because something is true he can say it out loud. Jaal thinks she's offended, though she repeatedly clarifies she only wants the conversation to be over.
Jaal clarifies what he meant by asking about her fear, launching into a lengthy lecture about the angaran concept "dos-ashaan", or noble fear. Vetra asks about it, and realizes he was actually trying to inspire her. At the end of his talk she's impressed and thanks him.
When Jaal apparently thinks Vetra doesn't trust him, Vetra confesses she doesn't really know him yet. The Initiative are the aliens in Heleus, and she wouldn't be surprised if Jaal holds some resentment about that. When Jaal tells her point-blank he doesn't, she chuckles that it makes things easier.
Vetra wonders if he never heard of the Nexus being stranded when the Initiative first arrived. She doesn't like his answer, but she deems it understandable.
When Jaal compliments her battlefield grace, Vetra affirms she's been known to occasionally dance the tango.
Vetra praises Jaal's agility and wishes she could move like he did.
Vetra inquires about his familial origins in the Resistance, musing he should meet Sid sometime.
Vetra guesses Jaal wants something by the way he looks at her. He wants to trade for the Resistance, so Vetra promises to table the discussions back on the Tempest. After giving it some thought, Vetra suggests helmets that would look great on angara.
When he notices her affinity for huge weapons, Vetra tells him it's more about intimidation than practicality. He then tells her about the frum-frav, a creature with similar intimidation tactics that Vetra finds incredulous.
When Jaal proclaims he and Vetra have become better friends, Vetra halfheartedly gives her agreement. Jaal asks her what she does for fun, and she only replies "This",  repeatedly. She insists she's already having fun at that moment.
Vetra assures Jaal they're going to change the wartime conditions in Heleus.
When Jaal complains about Peebee frequently looking at him, Vetra tells him she likes new shiny things. She also assures him he's genuinely interesting.
When Jaal brings up the topic again, Vetra asks if she should do something about it.
Jaal reads up on Milky Way history and has concluded salarians to be difficult to trust, so Vetra assures him they're the same as the rest of the Initiative.
When Jaal asks about turian boot camp, Vetra shares her dad took her away from Palaven before she came of age. She thinks it may have been good to not learn exactly the same thing as everyone else.
Jaal reads up on the Krogan Rebellions and has observed Vetra's friendship with Drack to be unusual. Vetra takes it as a compliment, though she notes the krogan can be a cranky old bastard at times.
When Jaal pesters her about the genophage, Vetra explains the turians' role in unleashing the plague on the krogan, and makes it clear she has no interest fighting the wars of her ancestors. Jaal persists in this line of thinking, causing her to remark Liam was right in that conversations with Jaal are sometimes not fun.
Vetra reflects on exaltation erasing everything about a victim.
Later, she asks if Jaal's okay about the revelations. He throws the question back at her, forcing her to say she also wouldn't be.
Jaal continues to be bothered on exaltation's effects on his people. Vetra admits it's too awful to think about.
While talking with Liam:
Vetra and Liam get into an argument about the latter's usage of shields. She deems it risky and irresponsible while Liam refuses to acknowledge its faults, arguing she's one to talk about responsibility. Vetra warily asks what he means, and he warns her not to pass judgement unless she wants the same.
Vetra realizes Liam detests her decision to bring Sid with her to Andromeda and threatens that his mouth will get him in trouble. She tells him Sid had a choice, and also warns him to stay away from her affairs and her sister.
After Vetra Nyx: Means and Ends, when Liam hears she's been working with Sid now Vetra grows wary he's about to judge her life decisions again. If he was present in the mission he claims it could have been way worse, causing Vetra to dismiss his concerns as "backhanded bullshit."
When Liam warns her about an impending smuggling bust from Nexus security, Vetra muses hypothetically that if someone involved got wind of it they would reschedule the activity.
Vetra praises Liam's combat moves which he got from a vid called "Edifice Wrecks". She notes it's a classic, but she prefers the batarian version.
She refers to the First Contact War as the Relay 314 Incident when Liam asks if she had family involved there.
Liam complains her claws jabbed him a couple of times during their last deployment. She flippantly dismisses his concerns.
Vetra's concerned Liam would break his expensive gear, though she's exasperated to hear his reasoning why.
Vetra tells Liam her equipment doesn't come standard.
While talking with Drack:
When he asks how Vetra met his granddaughter, Vetra obliges telling the story. She used to run with a small-time crew called Nova Force, and was caught stealing from Kesh during one of her jobs. She made a deal for her freedom, and was tasked by Kesh to retrieve experimental prototypes from the Terminus Systems. Vetra completed the job, and Kesh came to rely on her more and more, to the point that Vetra became curious about the items Kesh was sending her to retrieve. When Vetra asked Kesh directly, the latter told her about the Andromeda Initiative, and Vetra signed up not long after hearing the recruitment pitch.
On Eos:
Vetra talks about the weird tech on Habitat 7 messing up the planet. Ryder doesn't have answers yet, so she observes she doesn't expect any from the Nexus. The kett showed up before further studies could be conducted.
Vetra recalls the time the Nexus sent its first colonists to Eos. Everyone was hopeful and excited after their hellish arrival in Andromeda, until the dire reports started coming in. Ryder tells her it's going to be different this time, and she concurs she's ready to believe again.
Once Jaal Ama Darav has been recruited to the team, Vetra reveals he once traded her some homemade "lotion" for solder. Consequently, she feels softer than any turian should.
Around the rock formations near the Four Giants, Vetra's not a fan of the geological formations, deeming them possible road hazards against the Nomad.
While talking with Cora:
Cora asks who taught her to shoot. Vetra reveals her dad taught her the basics, but a female batarian mercenary who took pity on her taught her the fancy stuff. The batarian was "old as stars" and has seen everything, though Vetra mentions she never met her sister Sidera Nyx.
When Cora vents on her "sloppy" form in a fight and her frustrations on the challenges ahead, Vetra assures her she did well in the fight and merely making progress is all she needs.
Vetra recalls a caper on Omega. She was supposed to table-dance, but she ended up being the lookout and distraction. Thirty seconds in she tripped over herself and accidentally ripped out a volus' breather in the process. The volus started choking, launched backwards into a bunch of batarian mercs, and instigated a bar fight that lasted for two days. Sorting out the mess took a week, though Vetra and her accomplices were long gone by then.
While talking with Peebee:
Peebee reveals she met Sid on the Nexus. Vetra agrees her sister's chatty, bouncy, and irritating, though the asari doesn't seem to see those similar attributes in herself. Vetra had a hard time raising Sid, though she gets offended when Peebee thinks it's because she wanted to try motherhood out.
Vetra is inconvenienced by Peebee's attempts to say sorry. The latter recounts she was raised by, in essence, two mothers, thinking the experience comparable to Vetra's. The turian retorts she and Sid had no parents and someone had to be responsible, and doubts Peebee actually understands her situation.
While talking with Liam Kosta:
Vetra muses everything on Eos could change if they're successful. She kept a few of the golden world brochures for the planet, but found them hard to look at when Site 2 failed.
On Kadara:
Vetra recognizes a wind farm on approaching one in Varren's Scalp and deems its existence a smart move.
On the mountainous region at the boundary of Sulfur Springs and Draullir, Vetra's impressed with the number of caves present, calling it a smuggler's dream.
On Elaaden:
Vetra calls the rock formations "crazy".
While talking with Drack:
Ryder is impressed at the thriving New Tuchanka colony amid the hellscape. Vetra observes once the krogan set their mind to something they'll get it done.
Vetra complains about Sid being an obstinate sister. Their dad would not have agreed to Drack's opinions, and Vetra confirms he was formerly special ops and disappeared from their life.
Vetra wonders how she and her sister would have turned out if they had a better home life. Drack gives encouraging advice, causing Vetra to wish he raised her and Sid.
On Voeld:
The Nomad's manual claims it's good for all weather conditions, but Vetra is uncertain since the vehicle was tested under Milky Way conditions.
She rhetorically asks if there's anything on Voeld that isn't freezing.
Vetra wonders if they'll ever see a golden world that isn't "complete death" to live on.
While talking with Cora:
When Cora inquires about Sid, Vetra tells her she's still optimistic but not stupidly so. Her sister saw everything including the failed uprising on the Nexus, so Vetra thinks Sid is just keeping it together so her older sister doesn't unravel.
While talking with Peebee:
Peebee recalls a night doing pointless stuff for kicks. Vetra lets her know she's not yet bored.



