









Vido Santiago
Blue Suns Leader

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
Richard Green


Appearances
Mass Effect: FoundationMass Effect 2



“Actually, take your shot. Give my men a reason to put you down like the mad dog you are. Again.”
Vido Santiago is a human mercenary and a co-founder, with Zaeed Massani, of the Blue Suns. 






“I guess I want to stand for something too.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Foundation follow.









“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Background[]
Zaeed controlled the mercenaries while Vido managed the finances. Arguments ensued when Vido wanted to hire batarian mercenaries, citing the cheap labor opportunities; Zaeed strongly disagreed with this policy. Eventually, around 2165, Vido betrayed Zaeed by turning their men against him. Vido usurped Zaeed by paying six of his men to hold him down while he shot Zaeed in the head. Vido took control of the Blue Suns, managing their activities from the shadows.
At some point thereafter, Vido ceded de facto leadership of the Blue Suns to Solem Dal'serah, a batarian. This ingenious strategy both strengthened public relations and ensured his own safety. He has gone by the title of "Co-Executive Officer" ever since.

Mass Effect 2[]
In 2185, Vido is contacted by a Dr. Farrin from ExoGeni Corporation to provide safe transport for a Prothean artifact on Joab. Believing the artifact itself to be far more valuable than Farrin's transportation fee, Vido betrays Farrin, directing Captain Narom from the Blue Suns Base on Sanctum to torture Farrin's intermediary until he gave up the location of the dig site. Vido then sends a team to steal the artifact and transport it to the recently hijacked MSV Strontium Mule.
Vido also seizes control of a refinery on Zorya, using its workers as slave labor. If Commander Shepard grants Zaeed's request to track him down, Vido eventually meets the pair storming his facility. The Blue Suns leader taunts Zaeed to take his best shot lest he have his men put the mercenary down, again. Mistaking Zaeed's missed shots as the result of poor eyesight, Vido is momentarily thrown off by an exploding pipe. After recovering he threatens his former friend then leaves the scene to his men.
The ensuing battle results in a fire which endangers the Eldfell-Ashland refinery's civilian workers. Shepard has to make a difficult choice: let the workers die in order to take Vido down for good, or save the workers, potentially giving Vido the chance to escape.
If the refinery workers are saved, then Vido escapes the refinery in a gunship. He mutters to himself he'll see Zaeed in another 20 years, but then he's reminded of his own mortality when a soldier next to him dies from one of Zaeed's shots. If the workers are left to die, then Vido is wounded by Zaeed before he could reach the gunship, causing him to drop in a pool of flammable liquid. Vido begs for his life, claiming Zaeed's failed assassination was a business decision and "nothing personal." He even says he did Zaeed a favor, as the setback led to Zaeed becoming a very successful mercenary. Zaeed is in no mood to listen: he ejects a heat sink into the pool, and Vido dies screaming in flames.

Trivia[]
Among sequences cut from Mass Effect 3 is a conversation that takes place between Shepard and Zaeed on the Citadel, in which he recalls to Shepard his continued manhunt for Vido if he escaped in Mass Effect 2. Zaeed describes his assault on the Blue Suns' base Vido was hiding in and successfully trapping him, only for the Reapers to attack the colony and a Harvester to take Vido away.



