


Base outskirtsEntry point 1: front doorEntry point 2: detainment levelSaren's labsFacility main levelSurprise revelationsThe bombsite1/7You must infiltrate Saren's base and destroy it completely. Captain Kirrahe will assist with a diversionary strike to draw off most of the geth.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Preparation
3 Walkthrough

3.1 Sneaking in the Back
3.2 Base Entry
3.3 Saren's Base Interior
3.4 Destroy Saren's Base
3.5 Planting The Bomb
3.6 Saving a Squadmate
3.7 Option 1: AA Tower
3.8 Option 2: Back to the Bomb Site


4 Virmire Escape and Aftermath
5 Enemies
6 Mass Effect 2 Consequences
7 Mass Effect 3 Consequences
8 Bugs
9 Trivia
10 Cut Content
11 References


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Virmire: Saren's Plan

This mission is acquired after leaving the salarian camp on Virmire and beginning the attack on Saren's base.

Preparation[]
The mission's encounter environments run the gamut from long-range to close range against krogan and geth. You will encounter groups of several krogan at once, so consider including talents that can knock charging krogan off their feet - e.g. Neural Shock, Lift, Throw. Apart from that you will be fighting some fairly large geth at sometimes uncomfortably close ranges, so some abilities such as Sabotage to foul their weapons and AI Hacking to turn them against each other wouldn't go amiss. 
Whereas the previous part of Virmire tended to emphasize long-range weapons, during this portion of the mission you'll be facing more close-quarters encounters. Tali and Wrex are good examples of squadmates to bring along. Tali in particular has both a shotgun and tech talents that can help stop incoming fire. Wrex on the other hand brings biotic talents to knock down his fellow krogan and the occasional geth. If she wasn't sent with Kirrahe, Ashley also becomes a viable option, although she lacks crowd control talents. 
Consider modifying weapons with ammo that either prevents health regeneration, knocks opponents down, or both. The sheer number of charging enemies with defensive powers can become problematic. Armor configurations should be geared toward shield and health regeneration, since hostile fire will normally occur in places with poor cover, and using all your medi-gel to stay alive only to run out when a particularly powerful opponent comes along will make this battle tough.
It's also inevitable you'll face some enemies with radar jamming. Have at least one member of your team equipped with your strongest detection upgrade at all times. 
As a main plot mission there are lots of opportunities to increase your morality points here. If you intend to take on the assignments with high Paragon and/or Renegade score requirements this is one of the last few moments to beef up your scores.

Walkthrough[]
You and your two selected squadmates jump down behind a wall and survey the area. Captain Kirrahe comes over the comm and does a quick comm check. Respond as you will. Kirrahe replies that he is starting their attack and he reminds Shepard to be on the lookout for anything that can help them. 

Sneaking in the Back[]
Main article: Virmire: Assisting Kirrahe's Team
Like with the previous mission, there are multiple branching paths to take though they all end up in the same place. Consulting your map, you will be advancing generally to the west. There are four labeled places there, from east to west: Communications Tower, Satellite Uplink Tower, Refueling Platform, and Research Facility. The Satellite Uplink Tower and Research Facility cannot be missed while visiting the Communications Tower and Refueling Platform are optional.
If you intend to make things easier for Kirrahe's teams simply visit the labeled places in order, then when you reach the research facility entrances backtrack the alternate routes to sweep for killables and/or loot. Note:  This section of the mission is concurrent with the assignment Virmire: Assisting Kirrahe's Team. This page will only list the basics required to reach and enter the facility; consult the assignment page for more details on the assignment objectives and environs.

When you gain control head forward and to the north, there is a communications tower. The outskirts is defended by a Geth Trooper and a Geth Shock Trooper. On the structure itself are two Geth Snipers (one upstairs and one downstairs), another Shock Trooper, and a Geth Destroyer. They will greet you with a hail of gunfire and red tracking beams.
The comm tower has a geth console and a weapon locker (easy decryption). Disrupt the former if you want to make headway in the concurrent assignment. 
West of the communications tower there are two routes. No matter the way you choose you will run into some more geth:

North: 1 Geth Trooper and 2 Geth Assault Drones
South: 2 Geth Troopers and 1 Geth Rocket Drone
The next structure is the satellite uplink tower. It is initially defended by a Shock Trooper and a Krogan Warrior. On top of the structure is a satellite dish you can plink for the assignment, and below it is an aid station for medi-gel.
Beyond the sat uplink tower is a series of raised catwalks connecting circular platforms with ramping stairs from north to south. Halfway through the sole passage out of the sat tower the squadmate you sent to help Kirrahe radios that hostile air support has headed to refueling stations to recharge: a hint you can heed or ignore. Emerging from the catwalk, a Geth Destroyer can be seen north, and may be hidden beyond a crate. Shooting at it may alert a nearby Geth Rocket Trooper along the catwalk directly leading to the research facility. Deal with them as they're the immediate threats. Legendary Edition:  The Destroyer is less aggressive and won't even shoot or charge until you get close to it.
You now have a choice to go north to the refueling platform, south to explore what's there, or direct to the base. 
Going north leads to a gaggle of geth flyers above flammable tanks, so deal with them to accomplish an assignment objective. Note:  Kirrahe's survival depends on the destruction of the flyers. Failure to do so results in the squadmate aiding the salarians taking over radio chatter duties for the rest of the mission.

South from the sat tower leads to a platform defended by two Krogan Warriors: it has a lootable crate and an explosive containment cell, the latter being conveniently placed to soften these tough enemies up. Note:  a portion of the area below the catwalk, the one bounded by the southwest walls, is inaccessible, so be wary of physics attacks that might result in you or your enemies ending up there with potentially no firing solutions or legal way out.
The long tunnel headed northeast from the circular platforms leads to an upgrade kit and a vantage point covering the base entrance. Note:  This spot is a good place to snipe the geth and krogan guards that will spawn once you get really close to the research facility through the central catwalk.

If you explored both north and south areas before proceeding to the base, or have no interest doing so, proceed westward through the only catwalk to the research facility. When you reach the steps to the last circular platform, radio chatter will announce the result of your interference (or lack of) with the geth flyers. The platform is covered in hexagonal geth shields as well as the base entrance beyond it; and the entrance is defended by two Geth Snipers and two Krogan Warriors. Find cover as appropriate.
The krogan that appear here have a habit of walking down the bridge then charging about halfway across, then proceeding to melee and use their shotguns to fill the squad full of holes. The facility entrance has a bunch of explosive containment cells though, targeted shots may reduce the hostiles' health to manageable levels before they can get you. Insanity Tip: If you return to the sniping spot noted earlier, you can get all the geth down before any of the krogan can get to you -- plus you'll usually face the krogan one at a time instead of together. Note that you may need to approach the bridge to Saren's base closely enough to get the enemies to spawn first, before heading to the sniping point. 
When the area is clear head across the bridge. Loot the wall safe (easy decryption) and crate on opposing sides of the entrance. 
You now have two options to get into the base: the door on the upper level to the right of the bridge, or a path down through the base's underworks that begins to the left of the bridge. When you reach either entrance you hear radio chatter from Kirrahe or Ashley/Kaidan acknowledging you're getting close. At either end, there is a computer terminal where one of your squadmates will hack the console and say there are two options: either disable the alarms, or generate alarms on the other side of the base. If you elect to disable the alarms you will get more experience in the form of more enemies to fight. The other option will throw more enemies into Kirrahe's teams.
Once you access the console at either end, the other one will be disabled and the relevant door will remain locked. Don't worry, the base entry layout is circular so the endpoint of your chosen route is the beginning of the alternate route, just with locked off doors (enter through the sewers, you can arrive at the warehouse and vice versa). No lootables or enemies are locked out in either case. Consulting your map, if you choose the sewers you'll be going through the Maintenance Bay, Storage Room, Cell Block B, Security Office, Maintenance, then Warehouse. The order is reversed should you go through the Warehouse first. Either way, you will be progressing the mission through the Security Office.

The base underworks route requires you to decrypt the sewer door entrance (easy decryption) and fight off some indoctrinated salarians before reaching the security console in the area labeled the Maintenance Bay. On the upside, there's a technician kit there. Legendary Edition:  The sewer route now has a giant crate should you need cover near the first indoctrinated salarian. 
The other route features no enemies before reaching the security console, but you may face heavy resistance immediately after opening the doors of the area labeled the Warehouse if you don't disable the alarms. Either route features hostile salarians, which elicits some comments from one of your squadmates regarding Kirrahe losing some men and indoctrination. Going through the underworks is initially stealthier, though it won't matter in the long run if you're aiming to kill everything and maximize experience points anyway.

Base Entry[]
Assuming you enter through the sewers, after the console door you'll see some stairs and some indoctrinated salarians lurking about in the storage room above. After dealing with them, be sure not to miss the group of four crates behind the staircase.
There's an Aid Station right by the storage room door upstairs for reference should you need the medi-gel now or for later. The door leads to more stairs and eventually you arrive in the area marked as Cell Block B on your map. In it is the Turian Intel Report terminal containing a codex entry if you haven't received it yet (easy decryption) and a hold of cells containing salarians reduced to gibbering except one who can actually talk.

When you talk to this particular salarian he introduces himself as Private Menos Avot and says that experiments have been performed on him for the six days he has been imprisoned. Your squadmates will comment on his condition and both think that something is off about him. You now have a choice: let him out, or leave him in.
If you let him out he succumbs to the "incessant whispering" and attacks along with the indoctrinated salarians from adjoining cells. If you choose to leave him, he doesn't take this sitting down and will try to get out by charging the glass, cracking it partially (and his skull) in the process. Letting Avot and his cellmates out nets you a fight, some exp, and Paragon points while leaving them there nets you some Renegade points (though there's no option to open their cages afterward), so as always the decision is ultimately up to you.

Head out into the stairs and at the end you reach a security office that holds two more indoctrinated salarians, as weak as those who preceded them. When they are disposed of there is a hardened weapons locker (hard decryption) and a crate near where you came in. Make sure to open them before moving on. If you haven't gotten it yet, the terminal labeled Salarian Intel Report has another codex entry in it (easy decryption).
If you wish to advance to the heart of the mission faster at the expense of experience and loot, take the elevator at the center of the room to the next section. Otherwise, ignore it for now. 
If you want to explore, there are two more doors in the security office aside from the elevator and the one you came in. Take the one leading out into a corridor and into Maintenance. Head across the catwalk and you will arrive at another door. You're in the right place if someone on the cells below notices your presence - ignore him for now. Beyond the door, you arrive first at an antechamber to the areas labeled Maintenance and Warehouse on your map. In this antechamber is a terminal containing an Asari Intel Report - another codex entry if you haven't received this from other avenues yet (easy decryption). 

In the next room are two more indoctrinated salarians, a Shock Trooper, and a Geth Juggernaut. The salarians are roving around, so you might not see them initially. Shoot the salarians and use a power on the Juggernaut to keep it off balance. If you see it, aim for the explosive ion containment cell conveniently located near their starting positions.
When you take down the guards in the maintenance area, focus on the salarians and possibly geth that are coming from the lower level warehouse. If you chose to generate alarms on the other side of the base then you'll see only the salarians; otherwise you'll also face Geth Shock Troopers, Geth Troopers, Geth Rocket Troopers, and a Geth Destroyer. The three or four salarians are not a threat but the charging Destroyer is, so focus on that one first. When the attackers are down, take the medi-gel from the aid station near the stairs heading down into the warehouse before heading back. Note:  If you chose to come in through the base's upper level door rather than the underworks, this is the room you'll have entered. 

Head back to the security office and the take an immediate right to the door there, labeled in your map as leading to the Detention Cells. When you open the door you should be looking at a staircase heading down and to the right. It leads to the lower levels of the catwalk you were on. When you reach the bottom open the door and in the far left cell the salarian calling out to you earlier: Lieutenant Ganto Imness. Talking to this salarian will give up a lot more information than the last one that actually talked and didn't just shoot. Ganto will tell you about the threat of Indoctrination and what happened to his squad, apparently in the other cells. 
You can ask him about the tests and what has been happening, and when you have all the information you want you have two options, let him go, or keep him in the cell. He will understand either way. However, giving him the chance to outrun the blast grants some Paragon points, while leaving him to die will net some Renegade points. You can actually even tell him you're leaving him, gaining the Renegade points, and then change your mind and let him out after all, gaining the Paragon points as well. Afterwards, you can also open up the cell next to his, which contains four salarians. You can just free them, or you can execute them for more Renegade points. 
Once you've had your fill of exp and loot head back up to the security office and into the elevator.

Saren's Base Interior[]
When you reach the top of the elevator, you arrive at the base's genophage lab. Which somehow involves experiments on husks. The enemies in the room don't immediately notice you. Interacting with the stasis console directly in front of you will instantly draw their attention, however, causing the krogan researcher Doctor Droyas, his asari assistant, and the husks in the stasis chambers to attack, so don't do this. 
The asari thankfully doesn't possess any biotics that can knock you down but Droyas has Neural Shock which can, as well as a number of other nasty tech abilities, so it's a good idea to disable him ASAP before he notices you. Since you don't want to get blindsided by the husks while concentrating on him, an effective strategy is to rush across the room to the far end where there are no husks. 
There are only two doors in the area: the elevator, and an initially locked one at the middle of the room. When all enemies are down the door unlocks and you can start looting the area: near the elevator is an upgrade kit and also a wetware kit, and on the other side of the room is a medical station (easy decryption). When you are done, head out of the lab via the door, and take out the two Geth Troopers blocking your way to another security office. The drawbridge nearby will be lowered later; ignore it for now.

When you enter the room there is an asari behind a desk. She introduces herself as Rana Thanoptis, a scientist that is in a more permanent position than she would have wanted. You can ask questions and she gives a lot more information about indoctrination and Saren’s flagship, Sovereign. If you keep asking questions then she gives up a wealth of information and access to Saren's private lab. Now you have the option to either let her go or kill her; she'll make cameos in future Mass Effect games if you let her go.
Rana's office has a secure weapon locker (average decryption) by way of lootables. Take the elevator to Saren's lab and at the top is another beacon, and your squadmates remark that it is the same as the one on Eden Prime. Interacting with the beacon is the point of no return for the earliest sections of the mission. Ensure you already explored, looted and killed everything you need prior to this as backtracking will become impossible.
When you activate the beacon, it transmits the full vision into Shepard's brain; unlike the last time, this beacon doesn't explode, and the Commander remains conscious. After Shepard is released, the squad walks up the stairs and across the overhead catwalk, with a red hologram for controls appearing there. When you get closer a red hologram of something else appears.

The hologram begins talking and after just a few seconds, Shepard and the squad come to the realization that Sovereign isn't a Reaper ship, but an actual Reaper. You can ask Sovereign questions and it is willing enough to indulge Shepard for a time. However, after learning that the Reapers are doing what they do for reasons that cannot be understood by organics, and about the destruction of the Protheans, Sovereign ends the conversation and suddenly all the glass around the lab shatters.
Destroy Saren's Base[]
Joker informs you that Sovereign just pulled a turn that would shear any ship in the Alliance Navy in half. Move out and back to the elevator. When you exit the upper elevator station, a Geth Destroyer is waiting for you across the bridge, so make sure not to disappoint. Before you arrive outside Rana's former office, radio chatter from Kirrahe or Ashley/Kaidan confirms the geth have been rattled due to your actions. Head into the office, exit, and you'll see the drawbridges leading back the way you came from raised and the one in front of the squad lowered.

On the other side of the now-accessible drawbridge are three Krogan Warriors, and they're at the far end so they can't do that much damage yet. Send your squadmates up and be sure to keep an eye on them because the krogan will usually charge. Using Lift on the krogan when they charge will often send them out of the playable area for an instant kill. When the krogan are down move through the tunnel and exit. 
You're now out of the labs and into the base main level, and your map labels the next place you're going to as Turret Control. Further on the path banks upwards and along the left, though on a lower platform there are three crates (one requires average electronics, one requires average decryption, and one has no security). When you reach the turn you'll be greeted with the sight of a large AA gun. One of your squadmates are concerned it could punch holes on the Normandy. Fortunately the controls to disable it are nearby, though unfortunately it's defended by three Rocket Drones, another Krogan Warrior, a Geth Stalker, and a Geth Ghost.

On the lower platform by the sea again there are two crates: an upgrade kit and a secure crate (average decryption). The krogan is also on the lower platform and is quite easy to send flying into the abyss using Lift, then Throw. Then focus on the annoying Geth Hoppers jumping around, while being mindful not to take rockets to the face from the Rocket Drones around the corner. There are some explosive plasma containment cells in the area, though you may want to reserve it for later.
Insanity Tip: On the highest levels it's recommended you disable the hoppers first due to the Ghost's one-shot Assassination capability and the Stalker's constant threat of Sabotage. Stun them with a Lift, subvert them with AI Hacking, or Sabotage their weapons. The area is also open-air, the Hoppers can be whittled down from afar with basic targeting then strafing for cover.

When you head up to the controls and deactivate the AA tower your squad advises you to turn around because there are some geth that apparently followed you up the elevator you came in. A Rocket Trooper and a Shock Trooper show up. There is little cover, though you really don't need it because the geth are a pushover. Shortly after, the salarian team's leader radios congratulations on taking down the tower, musing it's now their turn to deal with the other turret. Loot the wall safe and the secure weapon locker (average decryption) before activating the elevator.
When you activate the elevator be prepared because it doesn't come up empty. Inside the elevator are two Geth Troopers and a Geth Shock Trooper. Take them out and then take the elevator yourself. 
You arrive at a short corridor with an Aid Station near the exit. The salarian team's leader radios their activities once you reach the door, and after that you are in one of the krogan breeding trenches. There are two Geth Stalkers jumping around so make sure to put them out of their misery; none of the dangerous Ghosts for now. Head across the room shooting as you go and using the cover as necessary. 

When you reach the door Kirrahe or Ashley/Kaidan tells everyone to bunker down as the charges have been set. Open it to reveal a large empty (but watery) space. Joker is elated at the AA towers' destruction, and shortly the Normandy arrives as well.
Planting The Bomb[]
The squadmate you didn't send with Kirrahe earlier walks down the Normandy's ramp with the salarian drive core that has been converted into a nuclear bomb. As the bomb is placed near the geothermal taps that power the base, and its one weak point, your other squadmate comes over the radio saying that they are pinned down on the second AA tower. The squadmate with you says to go because they still need a few minutes to finish the arming sequence, so do so. You have the option to reselect your squad at this point because you will have access to neither Kaidan nor Ashley at this point, no matter your choices. Insanity Tip: Unless Shepard is a biotic, you may want to include Liara in this squad for her crowd control abilities as you will be facing a lot of enemies in small spaces going forward.

When you regain control head to the door to your right, and be prepared for yet another fight. In this trench are two Krogan Warriors, a Krogan Warlord, and two Geth Ghosts. First order of business is to get into cover fast to avoid Assassination by the hoppers and then keep an eye on the Warlord because he has a habit of charging before the rest. He also has a habit of going just after Shepard and leaving the rest of the squad alone. 
When the Warlord goes down, focus on the geth then the remaining krogan. Finally when the attackers are down, run across and take the elevator up. Insanity Tips: On Insanity this battle is a lot more dangerous than it initially looks because of the nature of the enemies and the fairly tight space. Consider remaining outside the main door and picking off both of the Ghosts to simplify the situation, and then see if you can lure over one krogan at a time.
When you reach the top head to your left and make sure to loot the crate before heading up the ramp. When you walk up the stairs you are treated to a cutscene as a Geth Dropship flies overhead, as well as a big decision.

Saving a Squadmate[]
Shepard radios the squadmate back at the bomb site, they say that the geth are dropping in all over the place and they arm the bomb. If you ask, then they will say that they are making sure the bomb goes off no matter what. Then the same dialogue no matter where Kaidan or Ashley are. Both are insistent that Shepard go and save the other one. Because there is no time to save both, you must now pick a single squadmate to save: Kaidan or Ashley. 
Make your choice.

Depending on whom you choose to save you will either continue to the AA tower or head back to the bomb site. Whichever route you take you'll be forced to follow that option until the end of the mission. If you choose to continue to the AA tower, the elevator back will be disabled. If you choose to return to the bomb site, the door to the AA tower will be disabled.
You will lose all the equipment on the squad member you do not save.
The AA tower route has two possible item pickups while heading back has none.
The salarian team will be rescued regardless of your choice here, though if you choose to go to the AA Tower they will be fighting in that location along with the squadmate you assigned to their unit. Kirrahe's survival is entirely dependent on taking out the geth flyers earlier.
Even though your choice here will likely hinge on which character you wish to save, the fight at the bomb site is almost certain to be more challenging on higher difficulties: there are more enemies, fewer allies, and less cover. This can be something to remember for any future playthroughs even if it's no help now.
On a cinematic note, if you head to the AA Tower there you will eventually get to see a brief cutscene of the bomb site squad member's heroic stand. If you go to the bomb site instead, a cutscene will show Shepard hefting the wounded squadmate into a fireman's carry.
Two short but different musical themes play depending on how you respond to the squadmate you're sacrificing: a somber one for top/center farewells, and a smoldering one for the bottom responses.
Option 1: AA Tower[]
Keep heading down the path, which leads to an elevator, which leads to a small antechamber beneath the AA tower. Loot the Hardened Weapon Locker (hard decryption) and the medi gel from the Aid Station. Another elevator leads up to the AA tower itself, once you are ready save your game and head up. Once the elevator opens, draw weapons and head around until you can see geth attacking the remaining salarians. So oblige and attack the geth before they have a chance to do more damage.
The elevator opens away from the geth, giving you time to pick a path. Your right-hand side has a wall for cover and a clear firing path to the geth, and your left-hand side also has a wall for cover but with much of the view obstructed by a bunch of nearby crates. Both have their obvious advantages and disadvantages. There are 2 fuel tanks at the far end (one is obstructed by a crate if coming in from your right and the other is almost obscured by the near crates if you're coming in from the left) and there are also 2 fuel tanks at each side (may not be readily visible depending on where you are). You may want to blow them up to burn any geth inbound or nearby. You may also want to save some for the coming boss fight. Your call. Legendary Edition:  Crate/cover placement has been modified such that there are now more of them along the center area. The fuel tanks are also omitted from the level.
The second the last geth falls a cutscene starts where Saren appears overhead and barrages Shepard and the squad with biotic attacks from his hover-platform. Eventually after an attack that forces Shepard into cover Saren lands and begins a conversation.
He is impressed because his geth thought that the salarians were the real threat. Over the course of conversation you can get a lot of information about why Saren betrayed the Council and what Sovereign's motives are. If certain dialogue options are chosen, you are presented with Charm and Intimidate options. Using either of them will yield morality points as well as facilitate another persuasion check later in the game.

No matter what you say to Saren, it soon becomes clear that words will not be enough to stop him. Here at the AA tower, no matter where you are after finishing off the geth you resume the fight after the cutscene in cover to the left of the elevator.
Original Mass Effect:
Saren is essentially out in the open, but while riding his platform he is immune to biotic attacks except for Warp and Stasis. He usually focuses on Shepard and leaves the remaining squad members alone, so spread out but don't hesitate to have them join the fight. 
Because there is a lot of cover here use it to your advantage and take shots at Saren until the fight ends. Other than that, just keep your defensive abilities active, Sabotage Saren's weapons and use Damping to stifle his abilities as often as possible, and you should be fine. Tip: Saren will sometimes hover over places where fuel tanks are, so lucky for you if he does on a fuel tank you refrained from destroying. You can blow it up for great justice—use Sabotage for maximum effect.

Legendary Edition: 
This fight has changed dramatically in Legendary Edition. First of all there are no fuel tanks to the sides that you can use to take out chunks of Saren's health. Secondly, although Saren will initially exchange some shots and perhaps powers with you, he will soon begin summoning waves of Geth Troopers, Geth Shock Troopers, and eventually Geth Snipers and Geth Destroyers. Head over to the elevator entrance—this gives you a place to defend, and you can hide in the elevator itself if you need to recharge your shield. 
The geth will advance on you, and you will need to protect both your right and left flanks. Meanwhile Saren will be hovering and moving back and forth, and will unleash withering firepower and eventually rockets on anyone who ventures very far out of cover. When the initial wave of geth is down he will waste little time before summoning another. Again you will need to manage your flanks carefully, keep your squadmates alive, and gradually whittle away the geth. Ideally you'll also get some free moments to concentrate fire on Saren and do him some damage. 
The fight ends immediately when you manage to lower Saren's health bar to 50%, so you can choose how you divide your resources between whittling him down and holding back the geth.

Option 2: Back to the Bomb Site[]
When you reenter the bomb site, take cover immediately behind the large box right there on your left. There are a few more geth, mainly Destroyers and Shock Troopers—but on higher difficulty levels there will be a Juggernaut, two Snipers, and also a Geth Prime as icing on the cake. Primes are very dangerous foes to face on foot as they deal heavy damage and possess a dangerous suite of abilities including Damping that can seriously hamper your entire party. Try to disable it ASAP with your own Damping, or abilities such as Stasis, Lift, and Sabotage before it can bring its formidable arsenal to bear.
There is very little cover here, from the door your only cover is a stack of man-sized crates. On the upside, the geth are in a shooting gallery. If you're playing the original Mass Effect there are 4 fuel tanks in the area, assuming your trigger finger didn't get itchy and destroyed them on first arrival earlier, that you can shoot when geth are nearby to end the fight quickly. If you can save any, they may be useful at the upcoming boss fight. 
The second the last geth falls a cutscene starts where Saren appears overhead and barrages Shepard and the squad with biotic attacks from his hover-platform. Eventually after an attack that blows Shepard into cover Saren lands and begins a conversation.

He is impressed because his geth thought that the salarians were the real threat. Over the course of conversation you can get a lot of information about why Saren betrayed the Council and what Sovereign's motives are. If certain dialogue options are chosen, you are presented with Charm and Intimidate options. Using either of them will yield morality points as well as facilitate another persuasion check later in the game.
No matter what you say to Saren, it soon becomes clear that words will not be enough to stop him. Here at the bombsite, no matter where you are after finishing off the geth you resume the fight after the cutscene in cover to the left of the cylindrical structure, a bit back from the door you came in and a bit further back from the initial cover of man-sized crates near the door. 

Original Mass Effect:
Use the cover that is provided to shoot at Saren until the fight is over. Saren is essentially out in the open here, but while riding his platform he is basically immune to biotic attacks except for Warp and Stasis. The best way is to order your squadmates to attack Saren because he usually focuses on Shepard and leaves the remaining squad members alone. 
Because there is little cover here, keep moving as you use powers and gunfire to take out Saren before he can do the same to you. If you desperately need cover go to the door where you just came from. Keep your defensive abilities active, use Sabotage and Damping to suppress his weapons and abilities, and stay on the move, and you should be fine. Tip: Saren will sometimes hover over places where the fuel tanks are, so lucky for you if he does on a fuel tank you refrained from destroying. You can then shoot or even better Sabotage to cause him a lot of damage.

Legendary Edition: 
This fight has changed dramatically. First of all there are no fuel tanks that you can use to take out chunks of Saren's health. Secondly, although Saren will initially exchange some shots and perhaps powers with you, he will soon begin summoning waves of Geth Troopers, Geth Shock Troopers, and eventually Geth Snipers and Geth Destroyers. The geth will advance on you from both sides of the circular structure, and so part of your challenge is to keep from getting surrounded in a situation where you have nowhere to hide when you need to restore your shields. 
One strategy is to alternate between destroying or pushing back the ones on the left, and then the right, and so forth. Meanwhile Saren will be hovering and moving back and forth, and will unleash withering firepower on anyone who ventures very far out of cover. When the initial wave of geth is down he will waste little time before summoning another. Again you will need to manage your flanks carefully, keep your squadmates alive, and gradually whittle away the geth. Ideally you'll also get some free moments to concentrate fire on Saren and do him some damage. 
The fight ends immediately when you manage to lower Saren's health bar to 50%, so you can choose how you divide your resources between whittling him down and holding back the geth.

Virmire Escape and Aftermath[]
Eventually when Saren takes enough damage, a final cutscene will play showing Saren stepping off his platform, casting his assault rifle aside and grabbing Shepard. The turian holds Shepard over the edge, but something gets his attention and the Commander delivers a right hook to Saren's chin, making him drop Shepard. He then retreats to his platform and flies away. The Normandy arrives overhead and the screen fades…

…To the bombsite where the squad member left behind, clearly wounded, is still shooting at the geth from behind the bomb. They look up to see the Normandy flying away, smile, and get back to shooting the geth. If you picked up the squadmate from the bombsite, you won't see the fate of whoever was left at the AA Tower; the game just cuts directly to the next scene.
Then the scene shifts to the Normandy running and Joker trying to outrun the blast while telling everyone to hold on as it will be close. As the nuke goes off, Shepard looks out the window at the mushroom cloud produced by the bomb.
Once you are in the debriefing room, the squadmate you chose to save is trying to argue that they were the wrong choice. You can choose to rebuff or the soft response. If you have Liara in the squad she offers to join your minds again to make sense of the vision. If you have the cipher from Feros then she recognized some of the places from her research, Ilos.
Joker offers to patch the Council in and as usual, you can accept or not talk to them. If you do then the Council is grateful that the initial mission was a success. They are skeptical about the Reapers, but affirm that as a Spectre, it is Shepard's decision how to react. While the Council does offer some condolences for the loss of Shepard's squadmate in the explosion, they are half-hearted and disinterested, noting the trillions of other lives at stake.
Walk around the Normandy after you are done with the Council and Joker, as most of your squadmates will have opinions about the mission and the loss of your squadmate. If Kirrahe survived, you can visit him in the Normandy’s hangar deck along with the surviving salarians. He also offers his condolences to Shepard and will vow to never forget the sacrifice that either Ashley or Kaidan had to make. You can talk to Commander Rentola to purchase any of his leftover gear, a number of Armory licenses (if not previously acquired), and a second chance to acquire the Armali Council armory license (if not previously acquired during the UNC: Asari Diplomacy mission) that he didn't have available before the battle. Note:  Rentola, Kirrahe, and the salarians will depart the ship for good once you dock. Additionally, if you have done all plot worlds and are planning on visiting them, do it before you access the Galaxy Map.
Should you have completed the first four plot worlds at this point, you will be returned to the Citadel once you use the Galaxy Map and lockdown will begin immediately after you dock.

Enemies[]
Doctor Droyas
Geth Destroyer
Geth Hopper
Geth Juggernaut
Geth Prime
Geth Rocket Drone
Geth Rocket Trooper
Geth Shock Trooper
Geth Trooper
Husk
Indoctrinated
Krogan Warrior
Krogan Warlord
Salarian Commando (optional)
Saren
Scientist
Mass Effect 2 Consequences[]
If you spared Rana Thanoptis, she reappears in Dossier: The Warlord as a scientist complicit again in less-than-ethical tasks. There's no option to kill her there.
The squadmate who survived Virmire won't return as a squadmate. Ashley/Kaidan only makes a small appearance at the mission on Horizon, refusing any offers to join your team despite romantic entanglements if there's any.

Mass Effect 3 Consequences[]
Rana Thanoptis' cameo concludes in an email newsletter. She has been indoctrinated all along and has killed herself.
The Virmire survivor once more becomes available as a squadmate for one mission before being sidelined to the Huerta Memorial Hospital. Intervening events and decisions will result in them either dead, sent to Admiral Hackett as a War Asset, or reinstated as a permanent squadmate choice for the rest of the game.

Bugs[]
If you choose to return to the bomb site to save whoever you left there, after killing all the geth there's a chance of the cutscene with Saren not triggering, rendering the mission impossible to complete. The only known workaround is a save reload.
Trivia[]
According to Mass Effect Legendary Edition gameplay statistics as of July 27, 2021, 60% of players saved Ashley while 40% saved Kaidan.[1]





The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

Cut Content[]
Droyas and his assistant have unused lines associated with them, including a dialogue in which he would have resented Wrex for fighting against the "rebirth" of his own kind.[2]
Numerous data references and cut dialogues point to the once existing possibility to save both Kaidan and Ashley.[3]
References[]

↑ https://twitter.com/masseffect/status/1420036454042857472

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Virmire Voicelines#jug70_asa_indoctrinat, Mass Effect Cut Content/Virmire Voicelines#jug70_kro_docdroyas

↑ Plot Database: LE1.CH2_Virmire.The_Choice.Rescued_BOTH; Mass Effect Cut Content/Virmire Voicelines#jug80_ash and following sections



Virmire Mission Navigation


← Previous Mission

Mission Index




Virmire: Saren's Plan

Missions






