


Kirrahe and his men are attacking the base head on in hopes of diverting the attention of the geth. Though your primary mission is to infiltrate the base unseen, Kirrahe has asked you to keep an eye out for ways to frustrate and slow the geth defenses.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Walkthrough

2.1 Disrupt Communications
2.2 Destroy the Satellite Uplink
2.3 Destroy Flyers
2.4 Disable alarms


3 Enemies
4 Mass Effect 2 Consequences
5 Mass Effect 3 Consequences
6 Trivia


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Virmire: Assault

This assignment is gained automatically during Kirrahe's comm check in, when he says any help undermining the geth would be appreciated.

Walkthrough[]
There are four distinct actions that assist Kirrahe's group, again divided into Jaeto, Mannovai, and Aegohr fireteams. Initially, the squadmate you sent with Kirrahe runs with Aegohr while Kirrahe is with Jaëto. Helpfully, the actions are usually announced over radio chatter by Ashley or Kaidan (depending on who you sent along) or Kirrahe himself. They're on the labeled places on your map.
Accomplishing each action yields morality points. Upon passing a distance threshold from the task location, radio chatter will announce the effects of your interference (or lack thereof). These effects are mostly for flavor, except for one important instance below.
Note:  These actions must be completed in the order they occur. Going back for a missed task still awards the rewards, but does not redo the radio chatter into a more positive one.

Disrupt Communications[]
From your starting position at the beginning of Virmire: Assault, there is a communications tower just a few dozen meters north. Ashley or Kaidan reports team Mannovai is under fire. The outskirts is defended by a Geth Trooper and a Geth Shock Trooper. On the structure itself are two Geth Snipers (one upstairs and one downstairs), another Shock Trooper, and a Geth Destroyer. They will greet you with a hail of gunfire and red tracking beams. 
It's really open-air here, if you have long-range proficiency or biotic/tech talents at your disposal fire away and take cover in the numerous rocks around. The geth also deploy a few smaller shields on the upper level, providing them additional protection. The geth rarely venture away from their cover; normally after their numbers are thinned. Fortunately there are a couple of plasma containment cells in the platform, shooting them may soften your enemies up if they're caught in the blast. Snipers can easily one-shot you on Insanity level, so try to keep defensive abilities like Immunity or Barrier active whenever possible. 
While attacking the comm tower, one of your squad will comment that the geth seem very keen to protect that outpost. Find and activate a geth control panel on top of the platform to mess up their triangulation.
There's a weapon locker (easy decryption) near the terminal. Loot it once the coast is clear.
Failure to disrupt communications leads to team Mannovai getting decimated, forcing Kirrahe to call whoever's left to merge with Jaëto and Shepard's squadmate to go to him. Success leads to Shepad's squadmate gaining a chance to take the heat off Mannovai.

Destroy the Satellite Uplink[]
The satellite uplink station is right along your path west, so you can't miss it. Kirrahe advises Jaëto and Shepard's squadmate to watch for comm stations. The sat outpost is guarded by a Geth Shock Trooper and a Krogan Warrior, who have the high ground advantage, but the outpost approach is also studded with rocks so you won't lack for cover should you need it.
On top of the second station and hostiles is a satellite tower, the one with solar panels. One shot, Throw or Singularity will knock the device off the roof and destroy it. Below it is an aid station for medi-gel.
Failure to destroy the uplink leads to Ashley/Kaidan's team getting pounded. Success results in the geth's air support going off to recharge. In either case the team bunkers up.

Destroy Flyers[]
The bunkering up radio message is received partway through the catwalk/corridor just beyond the satellite uplink tower. Consulting your map, after the satellite uplink platform go to the northeastern part towards the refueling platform. You'll find Geth Assault Drones and Geth Rocket Drones hovering over fuel tanks.
Shoot the flammable tanks, or for maximum effect Sabotage them, and that should take out or at least severely damage a few of the flyers. Sabotage the drones as often as possible, their proximity to each other will be their downfall as the sabotage area effect ensures none of them will be able to fire. Alternatively, approach them from below the platform, which not only gives you cover using the platform itself, but the Rocket Drones have a tendency to approach in ones or twos. The north catwalk that merges into the base entrance has no further enemies, just great views of the beach. Legendary Edition:  On the catwalk just before you come into the flyers' visual range there is now an additional large crate for you to take cover on.
Locking the outcome does not occur until you cross into the final circular platform before the research facility. Warning:  Captain Kirrahe's fate is entirely based on the Geth Flyers. He will die if you ignore them and survive if they are destroyed. 
Failure to destroy the flyers leads to team Aegohr forming up with team Jaëto, along with Ashley/Kaidan announcing Kirrahe's demise and taking over comm duties for the rest of the mission. Success leads to Kirrahe supposing they may be getting some help from Shadow team - your team. The journal renames this assignment to Virmire: Kirrahe's Team or Virmire: Captain Kirrahe is Dead depending on outcome (although there may be instances where Kirrahe died but the journal does not change into the latter).

Disable alarms[]
When entering the base, either by the sewers or the warehouse entrance, there are consoles you must use to open the locked door nearby. You get two options — to either disable the alarms (thus more fighting for your squad) or trigger them at the far side of the base (sending them towards Kirrahe's team, but less enemies to fight for you). 
When you reach the security office inside the base radio chatter announces Jaëto getting flanked with krogan reinforcements if you sent enemies their way, or the salarian teams as a whole holding their ground if not.
This assignment ceases to be of relevance after the alarms and is only marked complete once the main mission is also over. Aboard the Normandy, when Shepard goes to the lower levels next to Wrex, there will be a group of salarians. If Kirrahe survived, he will be there too and say that perhaps he will see Shepard again one day. If not, he will be absent from the group.

Enemies[]
Geth Assault Drone
Geth Destroyer
Geth Rocket Drone
Geth Shock Trooper
Geth Sniper
Geth Trooper
Krogan Warrior
Mass Effect 2 Consequences[]
When talking to Mordin Solus about personal questions, he will mention that he worked under Captain Kirrahe in the salarian Special Tasks Group. Shepard will mention that they worked with him on Virmire to destroy Saren's cloning facility.

If Kirrahe lives, Mordin will talk about him and mention his reference to his "Hold the Line" speech.
If Kirrahe doesn't live, Mordin briefly eulogizes him.
Mass Effect 3 Consequences[]
If Kirrahe survived the events on Virmire, then when Shepard visits the salarian homeworld Sur'Kesh to rescue a fertile female krogan, the now-promoted Major Kirrahe will provide some assistance to Shepard and the squad. He can appear again on the Citadel, provided that Thane either died during Mass Effect 2, or was never spoken to on the Citadel. Kirrahe will save the salarian Councilor's life from Kai Leng, but die in the process.
If Wrex survived Virmire but died years later due to Shepard sabotaging the genophage cure, Kirrahe and his STG unit will appear in London instead of Wrex and his krogan. If Kirrahe died for any reason, Colonel Vaykom takes his place leading the salarian contingent in London.

Trivia[]
When Ashley/Kaidan radios about Mannovai taking fire from turrets, the subtitles list Kirrahe as the speaker, not either of them.



