


You've received word that a salarian reconnaissance team on Virmire has information about Saren. The message was unclear and the Council fears the team is in danger.
Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Preparation
3 Walkthrough

3.1 Drop Off
3.2 Gatehouse One
3.3 Gatehouse Two
3.4 Gatehouse Three
3.5 Salarian Camp


4 Enemies
5 Cut Content
6 References


Acquisition[]
This mission is acquired after the completion of two of the first three plot worlds: Therum, Noveria, or Feros.
The next time you try to access the Galaxy Map in the Normandy, Joker informs you of a priority call from the Citadel. If you ask if it's from Udina, nope, it's from the Council. You cannot travel to other star systems while this is pending, so might as well take the call in the comm room.
The Councilors inform you that a salarian recon team sent nothing but static on a mission-priority channel. They reason they wouldn't have sent anything if it wasn't important, so they want to apprise you of all your options. The signal originated on Virmire, so you must go there to investigate. 
The asari and salarian Councilors do most of the talking. If you want to antagonize them, the turian Councilor will speak up to offer his counterarguments. Morality points can be had in this exchange.

Preparation[]
You will be fighting geth ranging from small to large, but in an outdoor environment where you will mostly have the Mako available, and you'll be able to change squads before you encounter any other type of enemy. This is largely a driving mission, though technically you can proceed through the entire level on foot, but you'll be accomplishing little other than wasting your time, so use the tools you've been provided. As usual, additional experience points can be won for killing geth while on foot unless you are playing Legendary Edition, so if you plan to go this route equip a squad that will be useful against geth at ranges that are often distant. If you are planning on sticking to the Mako as much as possible, plan for a few fights with conventional geth at normal range. 
Squadmates with sniper rifle training, such as Garrus and Ashley, will be helpful, as well as ammo mods such as Tungsten Rounds which do extra damage against synthetics. You'll also have a several opportunities to use abilities at closer range, and fortunately geth are vulnerable to most powers. Due to the sheer amount of geth on the planet, Tali is an excellent candidate for the squad, as her Hacking ability can turn the tide of the fighting when mastered. Biotics, specifically the Lift ability that Kaidan and Liara have, can be useful in incapacitating a troublesome opponent. 
Beginning the Virmire mission sequence is a major turning point in the game. Unlike Feros or Noveria, you cannot return to the Normandy and leave the planet before completing the mission. Upon landing, you will be forced to see Virmire's mission chain to its very end, and one way or the other one member of your squad (or two, if your actions lead to it) will become unavailable afterward. If you intend on maximizing interactions, explore as much of your squadmates' character arcs as you can before landing on the planet. Virmire also presents a number of high level opponents and a boss fight, so putting the mission off until gaining a decent level, quality armor and weapons may be an excellent idea.

Walkthrough[]
If you visit the Citadel and ask Anderson about this, he'll say that he has never even heard of Virmire before the Council passed the information to Shepard.
Virmire is in the Hoc system of the Sentry Omega cluster.

Drop Off[]
When the Normandy is approaching Virmire, Joker picks up the signal from the Salarian STG team, and Kaidan takes notice of the massive defense towers that surround Saren’s base. Joker will tell Shepard that he will get the Mako in under Saren’s radar. The Normandy swoops in and drops the Mako at low altitude. Once the Mako rolls to a stop, Joker comes over the radio and calls for a successful drop. Respond, but basically Shepard says the same thing. Shepard orders Joker to keep the Normandy out of range until the AA guns are down. You will notice some animals around, however they are harmless and don’t attack so ignore them.
Climb into the Mako and head off. There are no item pickups in the driving sections of the map, making it convenient if you don't plan on disembarking from the Mako unless absolutely required. Be careful near the ocean's edge, because the Mako can drive over the rocks leading to a Critical Mission Failure. 
Around the second corner you will encounter some Geth Rocket Drones and Geth Assault Drones. These are actually harder to take out from the Mako than on foot, so exit and start shooting. Keep moving forward, taking out another group of drones along the way.
Insanity Tips: Rockets and especially snipers can one-shot Shepard on this level, so be careful getting out of the Mako when there is a large group around. Remember to turn the Mako sideways to any large enemies and "rock back and forth" to avoid rockets; likewise when you're outside the Mako and in the great outdoors where there isn't much cover, keep on the move while you shoot to avoid incoming missiles. But if you've made it this far on Insanity level you won't find anything in the vehicular section of Virmire too difficult. 

Ahead on the right are some Geth Rocket Troopers that just love to shoot rockets, so make sure they get only a shot or two off before they are scrap metal. Around the next corner are a bunch of Pod Crabs, two Geth Rocket Drones, and a Geth Juggernaut. Take out the hostiles any way you wish then move up to where they were to get a better shot at the accompanying Rocket Troopers.
About halfway down the next stretch you will come under rocket fire and your Mako radar will become jammed. Disembarking from the vehicle lifts the jamming and allows you to save, but restricts enemy detection to only a few meters from your team. There are some Rocket Drones at the end, so deal with them and then round the corner. On a bank to the left are three sets of geth shields and of course some more geth: four Rocket Troopers, two Assault Drones, and another Rocket Drone. Some may be hiding behind the rocks so you have to move up to take them all out. When they are down, head around the next corner and you can see a structure in the distance.

Gatehouse One[]
When you get close to the first gatehouse you start to come under fire from the geth guarding it. The group outside consists of two Geth Rocket Drones, one Rocket Trooper, and two Troopers. You can drive up and take them out on foot, or shoot them from a distance. Depending on your movements some of the defenders upstairs may come out of their initial positions to engage you, so be mindful. This also applies to the defenders of the other gatehouses down the road.
When all the initial geth are down, move up, if you haven’t already, and head up the stairs to the left. There are two more Troopers on the top, who may or may not have engaged the fight along with the troops below. In the far room accessible through a bare short tunnel is a Hardened Weapon Locker (hard decryption) plus two Geth Stalkers, a Geth Ghost, and a Geth Sniper (Legendary Edition:  The short tunnel has been furnished with two crates for cover, and as the next two gatehouses have similar architectures this also applies to them as well). There is also another Weapon Locker (easy decryption) on a wall before the tunnel to the gatehouse control room, be sure to open it before you leave. When you are done head back to the Mako and drive along.

Gatehouse Two[]
Consulting your map, the path from the first to the second gatehouse splits into two then merges again. Whichever path you take is immaterial as they both have enemies there: if you're not in a hurry, blast 'em all, or if you're speedrunning, pick one path and speed through.

Just outside the first gatehouse and before the split there is a Geth Colossus on your way. On both forks of the path there are an initial two Geth Armatures each. The path that appears closed off on your map is actually just a narrow archway, and it has another Geth Colossus beyond it. The alternate path has another Geth Armature and another Geth Colossus in separate places. 
Aside from the standard gun them down then exit the Mako for the killing blow for maximizing exp if you aren't playing Legandary Edition, you can take advantage of the level geometry and ram them off the ocean barricades for instant death if the opportunity appears, just be vigilant you don't overshoot the Mako and drown yourself. The colossi are particularly situated for this tactic though the armatures can also be victimized if you're diligent enough. The walkers are very susceptible to ramming and they waste a lot of time trying to reorient after such an attack, so do it often and preemptively especially if they're about to fire their Siege Pulse weapons.
As you get closer to the second gatehouse you may be hit with a powerful radar jamming that will obscure the enemy walker count if you aren't done dealing with them yet. Disembark from the Mako, equip your (or your squadmates') preferred weapon with your most powerful detection upgrades, then board the vehicle again. The jamming source is inside the gatehouse so dealing with it will have to wait until you arrive there.

The second gatehouse is similar to the first except the stairs are on the right and you cannot proceed further until you disable the artillery holding the Normandy back in the control room. Hostile headcount in the gate level is just a Rocket Trooper, a Geth Shock Trooper, and a Geth Sniper. Upstairs is another Rocket Trooper and Shock Trooper. Defending the control room is a Geth Sniper and two Geth Destroyers.
The control room has the toggles for the AA guns as well as the gatehouse doors. Switch off the guns first, then open up the doors, and get looting if you haven't yet. In the room is a Secure Weapon Locker (average decryption), and on the far side wall along the stairway is a crate.
When the AA tower is down, Joker radios that he is on approach to the salarian camp, you’re done here so get back into the Mako and drive on.

Gatehouse Three[]
As you drive under the gatehouse, the Normandy flies overhead en route to the salarian camp.

When you round the corner you encounter the last gatehouse and the final line of defense before the camp. As with the second gatehouse you must raise the gates at the control room before you can pass. Enemy composition here is a Rocket Trooper and two Troopers at ground level, three Shock Troopers inside the gatehouse building, and two Destroyers in the control room. Lootables include a Hardened Weapons Locker (hard decryption) in the control room and a crate along the wall by the entrance tunnel.
When you reenter the Mako, just gun it because there are no more enemies between you and the salarian camp. When you get closer Joker radios that the Normandy is down safely but they are apparently grounded, the salarian captain can explain when Shepard arrives.

Salarian Camp[]
When you reach the camp you are rewarded with credits and experience. A cutscene plays where Ashley and Kaidan are arguing with the salarian captain. The captain needs more time to come up with a plan, and when Shepard arrives, he introduces himself as Captain Kirrahe, 3rd Infiltration Regiment, STG. Kirrahe asks if Shepard was all the Council sent and is dismayed when he learns that his transmission was unclear. He lost half of his men investigating this place and Shepard’s orders were just the same.
When asked he talks about the base, apparently heavily fortified and guarded by a legion of geth. Kirrahe mentions that Saren is breeding an army of krogan. If you recruited Wrex to your team, he walks over and asks how that's possible. Kirrahe says that Saren found a cure for the genophage and it needs to be destroyed. Wrex disagrees, but Kirrahe insists as he thinks the krogan were a mistake. Wrex gets in Kirrahe's face, stating "[w]e are not a mistake!" Kirrahe requests that you resolve the issue with Wrex while he comes up with an assault plan.

Main article: Virmire: Wrex and the Genophage
This mission is then renamed Virmire: Saren's Plan in the journal. When you regain movement control, you can explore the camp at your own pace. Every NPC in the area (except the salarian pacing by the beach) has dialogue lines you can explore, and may change depending on how you dealt with Wrex. Squadmates also temporarily become NPCs: they stand around the camp in their original armor regardless of whatever you got for them, though this is merely a cosmetic change and they'll wear your preferences next mission. 

The tent nearest to the base wall has a codex entry from the Communications Relay (easy decryption). Liara loiters here if you already rescued her from Therum. Wrex is on the beach in front of her, intermittently blasting at the shore and the air with his shotgun until you talk to him.
The central tent has Kirrahe, who is your key to story progression. If you dealt with Wrex already, or if the krogan was never in your party to begin with, speak to him to get things going. Ashley and Kaidan  hang around in here initially.
The tent at the other side of the camp has Commander Rentola, Kirrahe's second-in command and supply officer. Beside him is a Medical Station (easy decryption). He has a limited selection of goods to sell but it is a good place to unload unnecessary gear before heading out. Sell any excess items you've accumulated to Rentola, because there's a long segment coming up and you don't want to end up at your inventory limit. Tali and Garrus can also be found in Rentola's vicinity: Tali inside the tent, and Garrus on the beach outside if you recruited him.
Note:  You cannot rely on the decryption skills of your squadmates here on the salarian camp - if you play as a Soldier or have low decryption skills on your own the med station and the comms relay will remain inaccessible.

When you are ready, head back to Kirrahe and he says that he has come up with a plan, sort of, and involves high risk and a lot of luck. He will divide his men into three teams and hit the front of the facility while Shepard and team “Shadow” sneaks around back. When asked about the team names Kirrahe will list of the other three: Aegohr, Mannovai, and Jaëto, the salarians' first three colony worlds. He hopes that they will remind the men what they are fighting for.
He also needs to ask Shepard for a huge favor, he needs one of Shepard’s squad for the assault. Both Ashley and Kaidan volunteer. Send whomever you wish with Kirrahe, however be warned that whichever one you send will be unavailable as a squadmate for the rest of Virmire. Personal preference or squad balance, keep whichever in mind when choosing.
When you are done Kirrahe gives you one last opportunity to hold off before the attack, if you do then just talk to him again to proceed. When you get ready to proceed, Kirrahe gives a speech to the men then wishes Shepard luck and asks the Commander to be on the lookout for anything that can assist the teams. When the squad selection screen comes up, there's your cue to navigate on to the next part of the mission.

Enemies[]
Geth Armature
Geth Assault Drone
Geth Colossus
Geth Destroyer
Geth Ghost
Geth Juggernaut
Geth Rocket Drone
Geth Rocket Trooper
Geth Shock Trooper
Geth Sniper
Geth Trooper





The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.

Cut Content[]
Unused dialogue voicelines point to it having been possible to initiate long conversations normally restricted to the Normandy with at least Ashley and Kaidan while in the salarian camp; they are inaccessible due to their set condition, which is to be on Virmire.[1]

References[]

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Virmire Voicelines#cha00_humanfemale_ashley (1), Mass Effect Cut Content/Virmire Voicelines#cha00_humanmale_kaidan



Virmire Mission Navigation




Mission Index

Next Mission →




Missions

Virmire: Assault




