







“The Lazarus Project will proceed as planned.”
An overhaul is planned for this article. (Discuss)









Vorn
Biologist

Race
Krogan


Gender
Male


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Vorn is a krogan botanist that left Milky Way with the Andromeda Initiative.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




In the wake of the Nexus rebellion, Vorn left the Nexus with other krogan of the Nakmor clan to live in New Tuchanka on Elaaden. There, he works with his assistant to get a greenhouse running. Vorn was taking inventory of a transport ship that contained the seed vault for the colony of New Tuchanka when the transport was hijacked by outlaws. The outlaws took the transport to one of their docking bays at one of Elaaden's moons. Vorn confined the transport with the docking bay clamps and locked himself in one of the base's shipping crates to keep the outlaws at bay but he was eventually discovered by the outlaws. He can be rescued by Pathfinder Ryder if Ryder chooses to help Nakmor Drack retrieve the krogans' seed vault. In the aftermath of his rescue, Vorn takes a bullet from one of the outlaws to protect Drack; after which Drack rebukes Vorn for risking his life and jeopardizing the survival of the colony. Much to Drack's discomfiture, Vorn argues that Drack's life isn't expendable and his experience makes him just as valuable to the colony. 
Vorn subsequently aided Ryder's party in securing the transport ship containing the seed vault. Vorn went to a console and kept the docking clamps shut in order to keep the outlaws from escaping on the transport ship. After Ryder's party fended off the outlaw mercenaries, the outlaw leader Aroane snuck up behind Vorn and held him hostage. Vorn was able to sneakily take out one of his plants and used the dust it expelled to sedate Aroane and make him unconscious. After Aroane was dealt with, Vorn and Ryder's party flew the transport ship back to New Tuchanka.
During the recovery, Vorn tells Drack he intends to court his granddaughter Nakmor Kesh, much to Drack's irritation. If spoken to at his stall, Vorn can ask Ryder to give Kesh a flower. Vorn can later be seen visiting the Nexus, consulting at the Hydroponic Gardens. He particularly intrigues Dr. Camden with the prospects of his disease-resistant seeds.
If Ryder chooses to rescue Drack's scouts from the Archon's flagship, he will inform Ryder that Kesh has laid several viable eggs. When spoken to at his stall, Vorn will reluctantly admit to being the father.
If Vorn was rescued by Ryder, he will participate in the battle for Meridian. He can be heard on the comms stating he is tranquilizing the Kett forces with his botany experiments.

Missions[]
Nakmor Drack: A Future for our People
Task: A Flower for Kesh



