









Warden Kuril




Race
Turian


Type
Organic


Faction
Blue Suns


Armament
M-76 Revenant


Abilities
 Tech Armor


Health
High


Armor
Very High


Shields
Very High


Locations
Purgatory


Warden Kuril is the turian warden of the Blue Suns prison ship Purgatory. Originally a law enforcement officer on Palaven, Kuril left after having grown tired of criminals always escaping. He joined up with the Blue Suns and came up with the idea of keeping criminals in space, where they can't escape.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




When Commander Shepard visits the Purgatory in order to retrieve Jack, Kuril gives the Commander a tour of the ship. He tells Shepard to go to Outprocessing to pick up Jack. When Shepard opens the door, Kuril reveals that he has betrayed Cerberus and orders the mercenaries to capture and hold Shepard for ransom. 
When Shepard releases Jack from cryo, the psychotic biotic goes on a rampage, wrecking prison blocks as she goes. Seeing that Shepard is too much trouble, Kuril decides to kill the Commander. When they come face-to-face, Shepard accuses him of being a "two-bit slaver". Kuril shouts back that he's doing everything for the good of the galaxy. Despite his being protected by shield generators, Shepard manages to kill Kuril.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Warden Kuril is one of the few NPCs equipped with the M-76 Revenant. He is very accurate with it, especially on higher difficulties. However, he has no offensive powers.

Defensive
In addition to his strong armour and shields, he is protected by three external shield generators, which must be destroyed before he can be damaged. Luckily, Kuril cannot damage Shepard either until the shield has been removed.

Tactics[]
Kuril is situated on high ground with decent cover, though he will stick his head out for long periods of time to blast Shepard with a barrage from his Revenant, making him vulnerable to attack.
Since there are no viable paths to his location, he cannot be Charged.
All engagements with him are strictly at range, so shotguns are not recommended. Employ powers and/or weapon switching depending on which defenses he still has: SMGs for his shields, heavy pistols or sniper rifles for armor, assault rifles for general utility.
When dodging his attacks prioritize taking standing cover as there are certain angles he can still shoot at you when crouching at waist-high cover.
As he tends to singularly focus on Shepard, this leaves your squadmates free to hit him with their powers with little risk. Recommended squad members are: Mordin to Incinerate Kuril's armour, Zaeed using Disruptor Ammo, Garrus to Overload the shields, and Miranda for both Overload and Warp.
His Tech Armor gives him powerful shields; use Disruptor Ammo, Energy Drain, and Overload to bring them down.
Tech Armor also allows Kuril to restore his shields to full strength if they are depleted; however, he will only do this once his armor has been totally depleted. Try to finish him off before he has a chance to do this. Any level of Flashbang Grenade can disable his shield restore for about 40 seconds while also briefly overheating his rifle and stunning him. Inferno Grenade can prevent him from taking cover and the panic effect of the burning will also prevent him from restoring shields. Incinerate and Incendiary Ammo can also panic him once he's unprotected.
Infiltrators and Soldiers can use their class powers (Tactical Cloak and Adrenaline Rush) to use sniper rifles and land headshots.
It is recommended that you take out the waves of Blue Suns Troopers, Blue Suns Centurions, and Blue Suns Commanders before you destroy Kuril's shield generators and fight him. If not dealt with quickly, these mercenary soldiers can overpower you.
The most effective heavy weapon for Kuril is the M-490 Blackstorm. By shooting it near him, the singularity's gravity would force him to stand up, exposing him, and the ensuring explosion would peel off half of either his shields or armor in Insanity difficulty. With some carefully-placed shots from the Blackstorm and a good mid-range weapon, the player can effectively kill Kuril or destroy his shields and armor with two shots from a Blackstorm.
Another option is to charge and fire the M-920 Cain as early as possible in the engagement. An accurate shot will kill Kuril right away and end the fight immediately.
Trivia[]
Warden Kuril is voiced by Fred Tatasciore.
In addition to voicing Saren Arterius and Balak in the Mass Effect games, Fred Tatasciore also provided the voices for The Grand Oak, Swiftrunner, and Cyrion in BioWare's Dragon Age: Origins and Captain Ing, Captain Sen, and Iron Soldier in Jade Empire.
Warden Kuril is one of the few "barefaced" turians seen in the Mass Effect universe.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




