









Weyrloc Clanspeaker




Race
Krogan


Type
Organic


Faction
Clan Weyrloc


Armament
M-27 Scimitar


Abilities
 Carnage Incendiary Ammo Berserker Charge Regeneration


Health
High


Armor
High


Locations
Tuchanka


The Weyrloc Clanspeaker is a krogan from the Weyrloc Clan who speaks on behalf of Chief Weyrloc Guld. He is encountered alongside Weyrloc Clanguards and Blood Pack Troopers during Mordin's loyalty mission.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




Inside the krogan hospital, Mordin and Shepard are confronted by the Weyrloc Clanspeaker. While the Clanspeaker believes that Shepard should be killed for spilling the blood of many Weyrloc krogan, he explains that Weyrloc Guld, the chief of chiefs, has given the crew one chance to flee. Denying the opportunity, the Clanspeaker launches into a long winded and bloodthirsty speech about Weyrloc's plan for the galaxy, such as plunging the Citadel into a star and eating salarian eggs as delicacies. 
The long speech will provide Shepard the opportunity to use Renegade interrupt: if engaged, Shepard will interrupt the speech by first firing one shot at the fuel tank below the Clanspeaker; just when the Clanspeaker harks at Shepard's apparent lack of marksmanship, Shepard fires the second shot, igniting the leaking gas and incinerating the Clanspeaker, eliminating him from the fight that follows. In his last breath he screams "The Bloodpack will avenge me!".

Capabilities[]
Offensive
The Weyrloc Clanspeaker is a krogan that is armed with a shotgun and will charge if given the opportunity. He uses Carnage as often as the Clanguards. He can also provide a stats boost to his men.
Defensive
He has a high level of armor and health, and can charge and regenerate like all krogan.

Tactics[]
The Weyrloc Clanspeaker is like any other krogan. He is armored, wields a shotgun, and will charge at Shepard or any squadmember if engaged in close combat. The best thing to do is stay at the bottom of the stairs in cover and shoot at him from there, he, like all krogan, will constantly move down and try to get as close as possible. Be careful because the vorcha accompanying him will attempt to come down from the right. Deal with the vorcha as they come down the stairs, but focus mainly on the Clanspeaker and Clanguards. The Renegade interrupt will instantly kill him before combat ensues.



Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




