









Wilson
Cerberus Medical Officer

Race
Human


Gender
Male


Voice Actor
Steve Blum


Appearances
Mass Effect 2


Wilson is a medical officer who works for Cerberus and oversees the Lazarus Project, along with Miranda Lawson. While Miranda runs the project, Dr. Wilson is attached to the bio wing, acting as Chief Medical Officer.







“The chances of surviving are… slim.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect 2 follow.




While the Lazarus Project is rebuilding Shepard, the facility comes under attack by rogue mechs, and Commander Shepard needs to fight through the facility to escape despite not being fully healed. When Shepard encounters Wilson for the first time, he has suffered a gunshot wound to the leg. 
As soon as the Commander treats him with medi-gel, more mechs swarm to their position. Wilson suggests overloading volatile crates nearby, and helps to carve a path to the station's escape shuttle. He finds Miranda waiting beyond the shuttle bay doors, and she shoots him in the throat. Miranda claims that it was Wilson who hacked the mechs just before she, Jacob Taylor, and Shepard finally evacuate the station. 
The reason for Wilson's betrayal is originally unknown. Various logs narrated by Wilson indicate frustration with Miranda's standoffish attitude, possibly suggesting he snapped due to personal reasons or was attempting to elicit some sort of privileged information from Miranda. Information available aboard the Shadow Broker's base, however, reveal that Wilson was in fact working for the Shadow Broker.

Trivia[]
Wilson carries on the tradition, as Corporal Jenkins did, by being a squadmate that is killed early on and replaced by a member with the same abilities (in this case, Miranda). This tradition has been with most BioWare games since Knights of the Old Republic.
If the Firepower Pack is installed, then Wilson will have the M-5 Phalanx instead of the M-3 Predator heavy pistol. Changes to DLC weapon availability in Mass Effect Legendary Edition mean Wilson again sports a Predator.
When Wilson's weapon is holstered, his walk animation is the same as Joker's.



