






This article is about a creature in Mass Effect: Andromeda. For the shotgun in Mass Effect 3, see M-11 Wraith.

This article or section is a stub. You can help Mass Effect Wiki by  expanding it. 


Wraith

 







Faction
Kett


Weapons / Attacks
Leap Attack, Acid Spit, Evasive Strike


Abilities
Camouflage


Health
Normal


Shields
–


Weak Points
Head


The Wraith is a kett unit. They are exalted challyrions that became far smarter and stronger than their non-exalted counterparts, and trained as guard and attack animals. They act as flankers in a confrontation, distracting targets while their masters lay down the firepower.

Contents

1 Scanner Information
2 Description

2.1 Exaltation Discovered


3 Capabilities
4 Tactics


Scanner Information[]
Kett Wraith


DATA:
Classification: Enemy
Origin: Andromeda
ANALYSIS:
A kett attack beast that remains camouflaged until it closes ranks, causing chaos and destruction.

Description[]
Nicknamed by Initiative scouts unlucky enough to encounter them, Wraiths are war beasts capable of adjusting their carapace pigmentation to blend into their surroundings. This ability lets them stalk an enemy over distances unseen or cause sudden disorder in enemy ranks, flushing targets to be picked off by other kett forces. When attacking, Wraiths leap and strike with impressive jaw strength that can puncture ceramic armor. 
Wraiths present an interesting study to Nexus scientists. Initially believed to originate from the same home world as the kett, since they have similar physical characteristics, Wraiths show clear genetic similarity with other feral creatures sighted across the Heleus Cluster.

Exaltation Discovered[]
With a new understanding of kett exaltation, this similarity can now be explained. It appears that Wraiths are the result of exalting these feral creatures into faithful warbeasts. 


Capabilities[]
Offensive
Wraith use leap melee attacks and will launch acid projectiles if unable to reach a target. At close range they swipe at an enemy with their sharp claws.

Defensive
They are capable of camouflage but have no armor or shields. The effect is similar to technological Tactical Cloaking employed by sapient species.

Tactics[]
Unlike the flankers used by other factions like Breachers and Adhi, Wraiths cannot immobilize a target with their jaws.
When facing both an enemy that forces ducking for cover (like Anointed) and an enemy that distracts targets in cover (Wraiths), deal with the Wraiths first as they're closer and more easily dispatched.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




