







The following information is drawn from cut content and is not to be considered canon in any way.



Wren Carson
Maintenance Officer

Race
Human


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect (cut)


Wren Carson is a character who was cut from Mass Effect during development. She was Throw Down's maintenance officer on Caleston, and is mainly associated with the assignment Caleston: Reactivate Production.
Little is known about Wren Carson's background due to her tendency to focus solely on her work and quickly dismiss everything else. Nonetheless, she appears to care deeply about the safety of her men, but resents the Union's criminals and their gang war. Commander Shepard finds Wren in the Throw Down refinery, where she mentions her frustration at the broken south pipeline, which she won't send her crew to repair due to the ongoing gang troubles. Shepard can offer to do it, but she remains unconvinced and reluctantly gives directions. After both the pyrolines and the gravitic stills are repaired and Shepard reports back, she initially shows skepticism but is surprised to see her readings confirm Shepard's saying. She quickly becomes very grateful, jokingly suggesting Shepard should do something about Caleston's awful smell while they're at it.[1]
After Liara T'Soni has been rescued and Shepard returns to Throw Down before leaving the planet, Wren Carson appears once more but in two different positions, depending on Shepard's actions. If administrator Nonya Tombiri was killed, arrested, or has left her post in any other way, then Eldfell-Ashland Energy has decided to promote Wren Carson to administrator of Throw Down for the next three months, until the next staff rotation. She feels inadequate for the job but quickly dismisses Shepard due to the load of work she's expected to handle.[2] If Tombiri is still in charge however, and Caleston: Reactivate Production was completed so far, Wren Carson finds Shepard while returning to the Normandy to deliver the news that the south line is working again, and leaves.

Trivia[]
Some of Wren Carson's ambient comments after taking up her post as administrator are references to the kinds of issues users commonly experience when using Microsoft Excel or similar spreadsheet softwares.[3]
References[]

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Reactivate Production Voicelines

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav20_trig24_wren_admin (1)

↑ Mass Effect Cut Content/Caleston: Last Man Standing: Infiltrate Gangs Voicelines#lav20_trig24_wren_admin (2)





