


After to [sic] talking to Wrex you learned that he's looking for his family's ceremonial armor. It was taken by the turians after the Krogan Rebellion [sic] and now a profiteer named Tonn Actus has it. 
Alternative journal entry:
You found a krogan armor belonging to the Urdnot Clan while exploring the planet Tuntau. It appears to be very old and perhaps very valuable.

Contents

1 Acquisition
2 Preparation
3 Walkthrough
4 Aftermath
5 Enemies
6 Bugs


Acquisition[]
Prerequisite: Citadel: Expose Saren

The assignment can be acquired in two ways. First, Urdnot Wrex must have been recruited. Aboard the SSV Normandy, repeatedly approaching Wrex and conversing with him about his past will eventually unlock an option to talk about his family, where he tells Shepard about the armor.
Alternatively, this assignment can be acquired by visiting Tuntau (Phoenix system, Argos Rho), at the place labeled Hidden Structure on the map, after taking command of the Normandy. 

Preparation[]
Wrex requests to be brought along assuming you get the assignment from him: it is up to you whether to bring him, as the assignment can still be completed by talking to Wrex on the Normandy after retrieving the armor. 
Expect a run-and-gun battle within a warehouse-type layout against pirates: almost close quarters and not a lot of room to maneuver. Armor focus is on extra protection while offense still depends on disabling biotics or tech abilities and high damage weapons against heavily armed and shielded organics. Damage-over-time based attacks that reduce damage protection, such as Warp, Polonium Rounds, or Inferno Rounds are a good idea, given that most hostiles tend to hide and let their health regenerate, and these types of attacks ensure that hiding or not, they're still being hit. 
In terms of when to attempt this assignment, be aware that enemies healing, hiding, and using Immunity can make this battle a very long slog if undertaken at fairly low levels, though in Legendary Edition this is less of an issue as Immunity has a much shorter duration. The presence of a Wetware Kit and Technician Kit (guaranteeing a new biotic amp and a new omni-tool, each adjusted to your current level) may attract you here. Finally, there are conversation options opened up on Virmire if this assignment is completed before traveling there. 
As this involves retrieving items from a profiteer that are likely locked up securely, invest some points in Decryption or bring someone who already has some. Alternatively, clear out all the enemies first and come back later with someone that has the appropriate tech skills to pick the locks.

Walkthrough[]
Upon landing on Tuntau, the hidden structure in question is directly south of the landing site, and set into a crater with few entrances. The exterior entrance is defended by two Pirate Snipers and a Pirate. Taking them out won't be a big problem, but the Snipers, even at close range, will try to use their Assassination ability, so watch out for that. Once the exterior infantry have been dealt with, enter the structure. 
When you enter, save your game. Depending on how you acquired this assignment, and if Wrex is present, he will comment about the armor being there. If you didn't acquire this before by talking to him, then you will get the story. If you already acquired the assignment, he will just mention that this is the place. Now to find the armor.

The main room has four Pirates at ground level and two Pirate Snipers and Tonn Actus in the upper level. Actus is usually aggressive and will descend to the ground floor once he detects hostilities. Assuming you venture beyond the doorway, a good cover area is at the other end of the main floor, near the opposite wall. You can get there without alerting the pirates to your presence until you are almost there. Once there, take cover and take out the pirates. 
The Pirates move around the area, and rarely enter it, but there are several overlapping fields of fire that they and your squad can take advantage of. Focus on the Pirates and Actus first, as they are the larger threats, and because the Snipers will usually switch to pistols for this fight due to their sight lines being obscured by the obstacles all around. Try to pick one enemy at a time and hammer him down as hard and quickly as possible, minimizing the chance for him to get away and heal.

Tip: If Shepard or a squadmate has access to Overload or Sabotage, there are multiple explosive fuel tanks on the balcony which can be seen and targeted from certain vantage points on the main floor before alerting the pirates - it is possible to do substantial damage to four or more pirates at the outset, making the ensuing fight much easier. On another note, Tonn Actus is usually right by the tank, so blowing it to pieces immediately usually kills him instantly at most difficulty levels, or at least takes a chunk off his health at higher ones, provided this is your way of making an entrance before they notice you. A fully upgraded Overload/Sabotage on Insanity level will take him down to the last 25% of his health bar, which then creates the opportunity to run quickly to the staircase to finish him off before he has time to heal.
All the non-sniper pirates in the room have Immunity and use it frequently. Actus is especially fond of using the power whenever he can. Just keep an eye out for flankers and rushers--flanking enemies are far more hazardous to your health than rushers, because the latter are usually infrequent. They will usually circle the cover area, firing when they get the chance. Actus however, likes to rush you no matter where you take cover, so use powers and gunfire to keep him in cover and prevent that from happening. Keep on the move when you're in the main chamber, because no matter where you take cover there are always flanking opportunities for your enemies. Alternatively you can position your squad in the doorway of the entrance room to prevent flanking, but this can make for a bit of a slow war of attrition.

Once all the pirates are down, explore the facility to find some crates. On the main floor, the only crates are in the room off the back wall. Inside is a Medical Kit, a Malfunctioning Object, a Hardened Crate (hard decryption), and a Crate. The second floor also only has loot in the room. The room holds another Medical Kit, a Technician Kit, an Upgrade Kit, a Wetware Kit, and the Wall Safe containing Wrex's armor (easy decryption). While you may find other armor in the safe, Wrex's armor is a plot item and thus won't appear in the inventory. You may safely convert any armor found into omni-gel without affecting the outcome of the assignment.
Note:  If your Decryption skill is too low to open the safe, return to the Normandy and then the base, and attempt to open it again; the skill difficulty level will change. To ensure success, bring along your team member with the highest decryption skill; you can still bring Wrex as the second squad member if you want to trigger the extra conversations.

Aftermath[]
Provided Wrex is around in the assignment, the journal entry for this after completion reads as follows: 
“Wrex was very happy that you recovered his armor. Apparently it's not very good, but it does have sentimental value. Well... sentimental for a krogan.”

 
If Wrex wasn't brought for the assignment but is still alive, the entry reads as: 
“Wrex will probably be upset he didn't get to kill Tonn Actus himself, but no doubt he'll be glad you recovered his family armor.”

 
If Wrex was already dead before completing the assignment and after talking to him about it, the entry reads as: 
“You found the armor that belongs to the Urdnot Clan. The only krogan you knew with that name is dead and gone. Wrex won't be needing this anytime soon.”


If Wrex was already dead before completing the assignment without talking to him about it, the entry reads as: 
“You found krogan armor belonging to the Urdnot Clan. If Wrex was still alive he could probably tell you more about it.”


If Wrex is present on Tuntau, the assignment will be completed there. If Wrex is not part of the squad, he can be found on the Normandy after Actus has been dealt with and given the armor. The assignment will then be completed, irrespective of Wrex having not told the Commander about the armor beforehand. 
Finishing this assignment with Wrex alive will open additional options with him later on. If this assignment is completed before travelling to Virmire, Commander Shepard will gain Wrex's trust and can use this in lieu of Charm or Intimidate to calm him down once it is revealed that Saren Arterius has found a cure for the genophage. This will still unlock the Charismatic achievement, despite no Charm/Intimidate being needed. It also changes Wrex's dialogue during that sequence, he will mention that he's been loyal to Shepard ever since the assignment was done, as opposed to doubting Shepard. 

Enemies[]
Pirate
Pirate Sniper
Tonn Actus
Bugs[]
The journal entry after completing this assignment may still say "Wrex will probably be upset he didn't get to kill Tonn Actus himself" even if Wrex was present in the assignment and killed the turian himself.



