









YMIR Mech




Race
Mech


Type
Synthetic


Faction
Various


Armament
Mass Accelerator Machine GunRocket Launcher


Abilities
 Post-Mortem Explosion


Health
High


Armor
High


Shields
High


Locations
Freedom's Progress, Korlus, Purgatory, Citadel, Omega, 2175 Aeia, Taitus, Sanctum, Neith, Daratar, Bekenstein, Capek, Aite, Project Base


Manufactured by Hahne-Kedar, the Battle YMIR Mech, or Model 34-A, commonly referred to simply as a Heavy Mech, is a massive killing machine designed for anti-infantry purposes. Clad in bone-white armor with red lighting, they are utilized by Eclipse and Blue Suns mercenaries as infantry support. They are also used as security in some colonies and are frequently seen alongside LOKI Mechs.
Heavily armored and shielded, YMIR Mechs possess twin automatic mass accelerator cannons concealed in the right arm and a rocket launcher in the left. These arms will open when the mech is about to fire. The symbols and writings on their armor bear resemblance to the LOKI Mechs' and the robotic sounds made by YMIR Mechs during combat sound similar to geth noises; however, they occasionally "speak" in a low, robotic voice, referring to their status during combat. Like Geth Armatures and Colossi, they will "unpack" when deployed.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
YMIR Mechs possess twin mass accelerator cannons in the right arm and a rocket launcher in the left arm. There is a noticeable audio delay before the left-arm rocket launcher opens fire. YMIR Mechs can engage from long range, but they will relentlessly attempt to advance on enemies. YMIRs move very slowly and loudly and cannot climb any steep difference in elevation, though they can climb up ramps or inclines. They can fire their cannons while moving but must pause to fire rockets.
The YMIR Mech will always explode upon destruction, and as with LOKI Mechs, a YMIR will explode when killed by a headshot. This causes a critical overload that results in a delayed and much larger explosion very similar to the detonation of an M-920 Cain projectile (see General Notes below for more information).
Defensive
YMIR Mechs possess high shielding and armor; as long as either protections are still intact, YMIRs are virtually impervious to force-based attacks from biotics or from any other source and cannot be stunned. They are also immune to weapon overheat effects even once their armor and shields have been stripped. However, once they are unprotected, they become vulnerable to being frozen or stunned by biotics or most other force attacks. 

Tactics[]
General Notes


YMIRs are very dangerous and tough enemies, and if encountered in combat, top priority must be placed on dispatching them quickly, as they will shred teammates and the player if caught in the open.
Their rockets can stagger you leaving you open to additional fire. The missiles can be dodged but this requires very precise timing: an abrupt change in direction the moment the missile is fired. This is harder to pull off the closer you are to the mech.
This mech moves very slowly, allowing the player to perform hit and run attacks if the terrain allows it. It is possible to hide behind large containers and circle around them when the mech closes in.
If you don't have a protected position, or if the YMIR is moving to flank you, retreat. Find better cover. Leave your squad mates to die if necessary. Better yet, you could wait for the mech to pass their bodies before reviving them, allowing them to start attacking the mech from behind while you keep its attention on you.
Headshots are the most effective tool against the YMIR, and given their large heads it's fairly easy to consistently headshot them with most weapons at many ranges. The most opportune time for lining up headshots is the time the mech takes to switch between its machine gun and rocket launcher. The mech makes a distinctive sound when it loads or unloads its rocket launcher.
Beware of the explosion caused when killing a YMIR. Getting caught in the blast radius when the mech overloads after a headshot can mean instant death, even when your health and shield are fully charged. There is a short delay before the headshot-kill and the detonation, with enough visual and audio cues to warn you of the impending explosion. Even when not killed by a headshot, the YMIR will still explode, albeit to a much less devastating degree. Still, the blast is sufficiently powerful to kill a critically injured character, friend or foe, and like the M-920 Cain's shots, the blast penetrates cover.
The YMIR's death explosion damages everyone nearby. If you can lure it to a position where it is surrounded by many enemies, that explosion could save you a lot of ammo. If the YMIR mech is taken down by a headshot, the resulting explosion can be enough to take out or severely weaken other nearby enemies, including other YMIRs.
More often than not, an YMIR will focus almost exclusively on Shepard unless squadmates are within targeting range and Shepard is not (the range at which the crosshair will bring up an enemy's name, health and protection layer info in the HUD). If all other enemies are eliminated and the terrain allows it, you could play "ring-around-the-rosie" with the YMIR while your squad slowly whittles the mech down with gunfire and powers.
In the worst-case scenario where you are caught out in the open against an YMIR, sprinting perpendicular to its line of fire can reduce the amount of hits you take as the YMIR tracks you. This is more effective if you have some bonuses to sprint speed, but it should go without saying that you should be sprinting towards cover.
Powers

Use Disruptor Ammo, Overload or Energy Drain to quickly nullify their shields. However, stun effects those powers may have against mechs do not apply to YMIRs, and neither do any weapon overheating effects.
Use Warp, Reave, Incinerate, Incendiary Ammo, or Armor Piercing Ammo to destroy their armor.
Pull, Throw, Shockwave, and Singularity can stun or knock down a YMIR Mech if its shields and armor have been destroyed but it will not be levitated due to its weight. Slam also technically works, but it only lifts a YMIR a few feet into the air resulting in a correspondingly weak slam.
Warp can detonate an unprotected YMIR under the effects of Pull, Slam (lifting portion), or Singularity as normal, dealing double damage.
Pull combined with Warp Ammo can quickly finish the mechs off when armor and shields have been dealt with.
Combat Drones can be effective as well, since they distract the mech. If you target a YMIR, the drone will almost always materialize behind the mech. It will then slowly turn to destroy the drone, opening an opportunity for attack.
If you have AI Hacking, you may use this to temporarily turn the mech into a very powerful ally, but it must first have had its shields and armor stripped.
Charge is not recommended against protected YMIRs, as they can never be stunned and can easily stun you with their missiles at close range. An unprotected mech can be stunned by Charge, but remember that basically all biotics sometimes just fail to properly disable even unprotected targets just due to general wonkiness.
Tactical Cloak can be used to easily reach new cover if the mech is close to your position but can also be used to take advantage of its low maneuverability. Position a teammate on the other side of the combat zone from you and cloak. At that point the mech will turn to attack your teammate. When your cloak drops, the mech will need to turn back around to attack you, which can give you several free seconds.
Stasis will affect a YMIR and it can be a great way to gain a few extra seconds as it will take the mech out of the battle, which will allow your shields to recharge and allow you to reposition yourself. In addition, the mech will fall down briefly upon Stasis wearing off, giving you 3-4 seconds to shoot it when it's vulnerable.
YMIRs are unaffected by Flashbang Grenade in any way other than taking a small amount of damage, even if their shields and armor have been removed.
Kasumi's Shadow Strike can be an effective way of both damaging and distracting an YMIR, as it will turn to attack her when she decloaks next to it to perform the strike; Kasumi herself is invulnerable during the attack.
Weapons

The M-622 Avalanche will completely strip a YMIR of its shields and armor, and freeze it for 30 seconds once it is unprotected, increasing its vulnerability to weapon fire and melee hits. Caution should be used around an YMIR that is destroyed while frozen, as it will detonate as usual but only once it thaws.
The Arc Projector is effective at taking out its shields. The M-490 Blackstorm will pin the mech in place for a brief time, before the singularity field explodes. The M-920 Cain will one-shot a YMIR on all difficulty levels.
Sniper rifles and heavy pistols are good choices against YMIRs for their damage bonus against armor and their precision, making headshots easier to pull off. The M-98 Widow is very powerful, requiring  only a few headshots to kill an unshielded YMIR.
All of the weapons provided by the Firepower Pack are very effective against the YMIR. The Geth Plasma Shotgun can deal massive damage to its shields with charged shots, and both the Mattock and Phalanx are very effective at ripping through its armor, with both guns being accurate enough to deal a killing headshot.
The M-76 Revenant, M-97 Viper, and Collector Particle Beam are effective against YMIR Mechs if they can fire uninterrupted, but it is difficult to survive long enough to deliver sustained barrages on higher difficulties unless the YMIR is distracted or disabled first.
Trivia[]
YMIR Mechs are likely named after a frost giant from Norse mythology.
Due to a YMIR Mech being present during Jacob's loyalty mission, it can be assumed that these units have been in production for at least ten years. This may have been a continuity error on the developer's part in light of other anachronistic technologies present in the mission.
In Mass Effect: Infiltrator, Randall Ezno and a turian prisoner encounter similar mechs deployed by Cerberus, that appear to be modified or advanced versions of YMIR, equipped with technology salvaged from the Collector Base.
On all difficulties with the exception of Insanity, the first YMIR Mech of the game encountered on Freedom's Progress will not create the larger "critical overload" explosion if destroyed by a headshot.


Mass Effect 2 Enemies


Blue Suns

Blue Suns Trooper • Blue Suns Heavy • Blue Suns Pyro • Blue Suns Legionnaire • Blue Suns Centurion • Blue Suns Commander • Warden Kuril • Jentha • Jedore • Sergeant Boortis • Captain Narom • Captain Vorhess • Lieutenant Locke • Senior Engineer • Command Bodyguard


Eclipse

Eclipse Trooper • Eclipse Heavy • Eclipse Engineer • Sisterhood Initiate • Eclipse Vanguard • Eclipse Commando • Eclipse Operative • Jaroth • Morl •  Captain Enyala • Captain Wasea • Chief Roe • Captain Vorleon • Bounty Hunter • Merc Leader • Eclipse Security Guard


Blood Pack

Blood Pack Trooper • Blood Pack Warrior • Blood Pack Boom-Squad • Blood Pack Pyro • Garm • Kureck • Kalusk • Salamul • Chief Weyrloc Guld • Weyrloc Clanguard • Weyrloc Clanspeaker


Mechs/Geth

LOKI Mech • FENRIS Mech • YMIR Mech • Cerberus Turret • Geth Cannon • Assault Drone • Rocket Drone • Combat Drone • Geth Trooper • Geth Recon Drone • Geth Hunter • Geth Rocket Trooper • Geth Destroyer • Geth Prime • Geth Colossus


Collectors

Husk • Abomination • Scion • Praetorian • Collector Drone • Collector Guardian • Collector Assassin • Harbinger • Oculus • Human-Reaper


Shadow Broker

Shadow Broker • Tela Vasir • Shadow Broker Agent • Shadow Broker Engineer • Shadow Broker Heavy • Shadow Broker Vanguard • Maintenance Drone


Other

Vorcha Heavy •  Varren • Klixen • Thresher Maw • Human Prisoner • Feral Hunter • Brainwashed Guard • A-61 Mantis Gunship • Batarian • Batarian Trooper • Batarian Commander • Krogan Berserker • Gatatog Warrior • Gatatog Uvenk • Human Looter • Freelance Bomb Tech • Freelancer • District Guard • Technician • Batarian War Beast • Prison Guard • Elite Prison Guard • Project Guard • Project Elite • Project Pyro • Project Engineer • Scientist




