









Zevin Raeka
Pathfinder

Race
Salarian


Gender
Female


Voice Actor
Gemma Whelan


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Zevin Raeka is the designated Pathfinder of the Andromeda Initiative's Ark Paarchero.







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.




Background[]
See also: Codex (Mass Effect: Andromeda)/The Andromeda Initiative#Pathfinders: Salarian Pathfinder
Upon arrival in Andromeda, the Paarchero was attacked by the kett. When the situation turned desperate, the ark's captain, Lumont Hayjer, persuaded Raeka to fake her own death, hide amongst the normal population in cryo, and dismantle her SAM—all so they would not fall into enemy hands. She reentered cryostasis in the cryopod of Jeks Arlan, a deceased male salarian, and the latter was given Raeka's identity to further the ruse.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]

Raeka is awoken by Pathfinder Ryder after the latter saw through the deception. She expects Alec Ryder to be the human Pathfinder, unaware of his passing, but nonetheless brings the younger Ryder up to speed on what happened to the ark. She works with Ryder's plan to discreetly wake up the ark's flight crew and ready it for escape while the other Pathfinder gathers intelligence on the Archon's flagship tethered to the ark. As her own SAM is inactive, Ryder's SAM collaborates with her through comms, prompting her to remark she's back in the game.
Later, Raeka leads a landing party on the Archon's flagship, the Verakan, in order to save captured salarians. She later assists Ryder during a kett ambush, losing one of her crewmates. During their respective missions however, Ryder discovers that the Verakan's guns are trained on the Paarchero and will destroy it before they can even power up the Paarchero's engines. Raeka makes a plan to resolve the problem and has her salarian team rig an EMP device on the Verakan's guns while she independently resumes the search for the captured salarian colonists.
After Ryder successfully obtains information about Meridian from the Archon's private chamber, Ryder is discovered by a hologram of the Archon, who consequently orders the Verakan to destroy the Initiative's spaceships in order to trap them in his warship. In order to preserve their means of escape, Pathfinder Ryder orders the salarian team to detonate the EMP. While en route to the Tempest, Raeka reveals she is pinned down with some of the captured salarians by an overwhelming kett force in the holding cells. Unable to save herself, she contacts Ryder and says her goodbyes as one Pathfinder to another. SAM also reveals that several krogan captives are still on the ship and are scheduled for exaltation. Ryder only has enough time to rescue either Drack's missing scouts or Pathfinder Raeka and her people before the kett are able to power up the Verakan again. 
If she isn't helped by Ryder, she is presumably killed by the kett. She is subsequently succeeded as a Pathfinder by Lumont Hayjer.
If Ryder chose to save Zevin Raeka over the krogan scouts, she acknowledges her fellow Pathfinder's difficult decision and apologizes to Ryder for putting them in such an inconvenient situation. During a gathering of the Pathfinders in the Nexus, Pathfinder Raeka will reveal to her colleagues that she has been investigating the kett's Exaltation process in order to find a way to prevent it.
Raeka later assists in the battle for Meridian, shooting down kett fighters with the Moshae Sjefa powering her rifle.
Ryder can optionally support Raeka as interim ambassador to the Nexus, which receives support from Jarun Tann, though Raeka later tells Ryder that she will not be manipulated by him.




