







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.






Zia Cordier

 







Faction
Outlaws


Weapons / Attacks
M-8 Avenger


Abilities
–


Health
Normal


Shields
–


Weak Points
Head


Zia Cordier (Cordier pronounced as COR-diāy) is a smuggler operating on Kadara. She is a business rival of Reyes Vidal, and also an ex-girlfriend whom he dumped in less than amicable terms. Whenever she's on the planet, she hangs out on Kralla's Song for drinks.
Jealous of Reyes' successes in the smuggling business, Zia conspired with others to take him out of competition. She leaked out news that she allegedly got his middleman drunk and stole the guy's ship, which contains premium cargo Reyes had been moving for a client.
Knowing Reyes would investigate, she went to Kralla's to meet with a salarian unfamiliar to the bartender, making sure they were overheard going to Spirits' Ledge for a meeting. She wore armor with the Collective insignia, possibly to sell the ruse, and it works as Umi Henon suspects the salarian is the Charlatan.
When Reyes follows the clues to a shack in Haarfel and realizes he's been set up, Zia appears before him and Pathfinder Ryder, admitting to the elaborate ruse. She accuses him of being too selfish: he alienated his competitors too much they banded against him. Should Ryder see good qualities in Reyes, Zia chuckles and tells them they'll see they are wrong eventually. 
Once she's done with the gloating she signals her men to move in and finish Reyes' team. They are unsuccessful and are killed instead. In the aftermath, Reyes volunteers to clean up the mess, figuring it would be wrong to leave Zia out in the open.

Capabilities[]
Offensive
Zia is armed with the M-8 Avenger.

Defensive
Zia is unprotected by shields, armor, or barriers.

Tactics[]
Zia is essentially a named Raider (and registers as one if scanned). Tactics for beating Raiders should still generally apply to her.




Mass Effect: Andromeda Enemies




Kett

Anointed • Ascendant (Prefect) • Behemoth • Chosen • Destined • Fiend • Turret • Wraith Archon's Sword • Invictor • Scientist • The Cardinal • The Valiant


Outlaws

Adhi • Agent • Anarchist • Berserker • Hydra (Blaze Hydra) • Pariah • Raider • Saboteur • Sharpshooter • Turret Axius • Barrett • Dorado • Farah Noskos • Hardy • Krex • Lynx • Mallox • Meriweather • Strogjaw Grog • Zia Cordier


Remnant

Architect • Assembler • Breacher • Creeper • Destroyer (Progenitor) • Nullifier • Observer • Turret


Wildlife

Challyrion • Drall • Echidna • Eiroch (Ancient Eiroch) • Galorn • Kaerkyn • Rylkor • Shemrys • Spitbug • Taurg • Wild Adhi




