







“Make no mistake — this is a one-way trip.” — Spoilers for Mass Effect: Andromeda follow.






Zorai
Champion

Race
Angara


Gender
Female


Appearances
Mass Effect: Andromeda


Zorai was a champion of the angara who lived in the time before the Scourge. She was described as both a soldier and a scholar who extensively traveled the stars to gain knowledge.

Background[]
According to angara histories, Zorai knew about the Jardaan and their Remnant creations. When the Scourge was unleashed on Heleus she sought out the monoliths for an unknown purpose. She eventually died, but it was unclear if she accomplished what she meant to do. 
Zorai left behind a technological gauntlet that became an heirloom of her descendants, speculated to have aided her in "speaking" with the Remnant. A female descendant was supposed to inherit the gauntlet, but her lack of interest led it to be passed to a younger male sibling. Two generations after that male sibling, the gauntlet was taken by a patrilineal descendant to the Remnant Abyss, where they met their end. 
Eventually, the sages of Mithrava would come to believe that Zorai has reincarnated in modern times as Taavos, a soldier of the Roekaar. They also misremember her as male, instead of female.

Mass Effect: Andromeda[]

During the mission to reverse Havarl's decline, Pathfinder Ryder retrieves Zorai's gauntlet and uses it to convince Taavos to join the search for the missing third monolith. The Pathfinder and the Roekaar soldier journey to the Buried Cave where they come across Zorai's resting place. Genetic analysis of her decomposed remains and an audio log prove her gender. 
Zorai died before reaching the monolith, and only bioluminescent flora and fungi mark where she had fallen. She realized Havarl would die without its vault and was trying to reactivate the monoliths. She managed to restore two, but the strain of interfacing with the Remnant eventually overwhelmed her. Ryder completes her task and goes on to correct the world's ecosystem through the vault. 
Ryder and Taavos discuss how Zorai was able to use Remnant tech. Taavos claims she "watched the watchers", leading the Pathfinder to speculate Zorai was subjected to the same stasis effects that froze modern angara attempting to study the first monolith. She managed to shake it off, though the process changed her.




