




Zorya

Region
Milky Way / Ismar Frontier / Faia





Planet View


Orbital Distance
1.8 AU


Orbital Period
2.4 Earth Years


Keplerian Ratio
1.013


Radius
6,247 km


Day Length
28.4 Earth Hours


Atm. Pressure
1.22 atm


Surface Temp
33 °C 


Surface Gravity
1.0 g


Mass
0.952 Earth Masses


Satellites
2


Location: Milky Way / Ismar Frontier / Faia System /  Second planet


Colony

Capital
Thun


Colony Founded
2160


Population
148,000,000



Prerequisite: Dossier: The Veteran (Mass Effect 2)

Contents

1 Description
2 Codex Entry
3 Missions
4 Mineral Deposits
5 Trivia


Description[]
"Mud, sweat and spores," is how Blue Suns mercenaries characterize the planet that gave birth to their home office. This lush garden world is known for its heavy plant and fungal life, creating spectacular jungle zones over much of its eight continents. Despite persistent problems with rot and rust, Zorya attracts investors and corporations from all throughout the galaxy, since it has exploited only a fraction of its potential resources. The Blue Suns dominate security contracts on Zorya, so much that residents describe them less like a monopoly and more like a conquering regime.

Codex Entry[]
"Bring firearms and antihistamines" is what veteran guides say about this lush garden world. First colonized in 2160, Zorya's temperate and tropical zones are overrun with plants and fungi of all kinds. As a result, the air in most habitable areas is choked with pollen and spores that range from benign to deadly. The scattered colonies across the planet have resorted to clear-cutting and slash-and-burn farming to create habitable zones, and the more rural areas, where the spores are thickest, are populated only by vorcha. Lax ecological laws allow mining and manufacturing industries to flourish and pollute cheaply, as the planet's carrying capacity far outstrips the current size of its colonies.
Zorya is also home to the Blue Suns mercenary company, who dominate the colonies' security forces. The Suns enjoy nearly unlimited influence with local politicians and judges, ensuring no other private military contractors can compete with them economically. Nearly every colony has a Suns recruiting station, if not a training camp, though this has hardly made the planet any safer. Piracy, drugs and vice, and political violence are commonplace.

Missions[]
Mission: Zaeed: The Price of Revenge
Mineral Deposits[]
Zorya is a mission world and cannot be mined.

Trivia[]
Zorya is the name given to the three guardians who supervise and restrain the doomhound from devouring the constellation Ursa Minor in Slavic mythology.
Thun is the name given to both a municipality and its capital in Switzerland.



